ACTING ALLOWANCE POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Acting Allowance Policy
	Version 
	V- 01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Acting Allowance Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
Whenever a vacancy (temporary or permanent) occurs, an acting appointment may be made  to the position in order to ensure continuity of operations. 
3.0 Scope 
This policy is applicable to all employees of Cellulant. 
4.0 Qualifying period 
∙ The minimum period for which one must act to qualify for acting allowance shall be  thirty days.  
∙ The maximum period for which one must act shall be six months. 
5.0 Rate 
∙ A person appointed to act up a higher position shall be entitled to an acting allowance of  15% of their gross salary per month in addition to their current basic salary. 
6.0 General provisions 
∙ When an opportunity for an acting appointment occurs, it will be the primary  responsibility of the relevant Departmental Head to identify the most suitable candidate  from either within the particular Department or from another, if appropriate.  
∙ At any stage, advice may be sought from the Human Resource Department on the  identification of the most suitable candidate.  
∙ The Chief People Officer after consultation with Departmental head or duly authorized  representative must approve all acting appointments.  
∙ An acting appointment, unless specifically stated in writing, shall give the employee no  special claim for promotion to the position.  
∙ An acting appointment shall not be considered to have been broken during periods of  sick leave and during leave on casual absences from duty not exceeding seven (7)  consecutive working days; in such cases acting allowances shall be paid in respect of  those periods. For absences longer than 7 consecutive working days, the situation will be  reviewed on a case by case basis and appropriate action taken in consultation with the  human resources department.
2 Acting Allowance Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ A person can only act for one position at a time; no acting allowance shall be paid for  multiple positions. 
∙ In the case of absence on annual leave or absence from duty or short absence due to  illness or other cause, there will be, in general, no need for an acting appointment and no  acting allowance will be payable. 
∙ An acting allowance will be payable from the date on which the staff assumes the duties  of his/her acting appointment up to the date prior to that on which he/she hands over  the duties of the office.
3 Acting Allowance Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016