LEAVE POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Leave Policy
	Version 
	V-01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Leave Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
The intent of this policy is to inform employees of their entitlements and requirements regarding all forms of leave.  
3.0 Scope 
This policy is applicable to:  
∙ All permanent employees employed by Cellulant.  
∙ All other employee types are governed by the Employment Acts of the specific  countries.  
∙ The leave cycle for all employees runs from January to December for all types of leave. 
4.0 Purpose 
The purpose of this policy is:  
∙ To provide a clear understanding of the different leave entitlements, when and how they  apply;  
∙ To ensure that Cellulant, at a minimum, complies with the provisions of labour  legislation which regulate statutory leave;  
∙ To ensure that leave is managed consistently across the business.  
5.0 Granting of Leave  
∙ Granting and approval of leave is subject to consideration of operational needs of the  company as well as statutory provisions.  
∙ The company reserves the right to direct leave entitlement in terms of timing and  duration within the confines of statutes as well as business requirements.  ∙ Leave applications should be done on-line through the HRIS system (Tribe HR). 
6.0 Leave Application Process  
∙ Applications for each leave must be submitted in accordance to the provisions for each  type of leave. 
∙ Failure of employee to resume duty after the leave period will be deemed negligence or  absconding of duty and may be subject to the disciplinary action. 
∙ An employee will not qualify to proceed on leave without an approved signed copy of  the leave application.
2 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
7.0 Managing Accrued Excess Leave  
∙ The onus is on the employees to ensure that they take their leave before the end of the  respective leave cycle in which the leave accrued.  
∙ It is the responsibility of all line managers to ensure that an annual leave plan is agreed  for all employees and is managed appropriately to prevent excess leave accumulating.  ∙ In order to minimize excess leave risk, managers are required to manage their teams  leave. 
8.0 Fair Application of the Leave Policy  
∙ Managers must be fair and reasonable in allowing employees to take their annual leave  commitment. Although leave is dependent upon the operational circumstances,  management cannot consistently refuse employee requests for entitled leave. It is  management’s role to manage resources efficiently and effectively so as to ensure  operational requirements are met together with a balanced working environment,  including leave.  
∙ Employees on leave may be recalled at any time prior to the completion of their leave if  there is a job exigency. 
∙ Should an employee’s leave application not be approved and if the employee feels such  decision is not reasonable and contravenes the company’s leave policy; the employee  should escalate the matter to the human resources department. 
9.0 Responsibility  
∙ It is the responsibility of all employees to act within the mandate of this policy.  ∙ Any violation or abuse of the terms of this policy will result in the necessary disciplinary  action being taken.  
∙ Responsibilities for managers include: 
o Ensuring that all leave is administered via the current online leave system;  o Ensuring that this policy is correctly applied and monitored. 
o Being accountable for the management of leave in respect of employees reporting to  them;  
o Ensuring that employees take adequate leave during the annual leave cycle to avoid  burn out and the accumulation of excess leave;  
o Developing leave plans for employees with excess leave. 
3 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
10.0 Types of Leave 
10.1 Annual Leave 
∙ Leave days entitlement are stipulated in the employment contracts in accordance with  the Employment Act of the country of residence of the employee. 
∙ Leave days should be applied two weeks before the commencement of the leave. ∙ Leave accrues on a monthly basis. 
∙ Different countries have statutory benefits E.g. leave allowance which Cellulant will  offer according to the specific country of operation that the employee is operating in. ∙ For employees who have handed in their resignation, accrued annual leave may be  taken during an employee’s notice period on consultation with the supervisor and  human resources department.  
∙ Employees may not work for any other employer during any period of annual leave.  ∙ Annual leave cannot be paid out (encashed) whilst the employee is in the employ of the  company. The company will only pay out the employee’s outstanding annual leave  balance upon resignation/termination of employment.  
∙ Cellulant encourages and expects staff to take their full annual leave entitlement during  the current leave year. Notwithstanding this: 
o Up to ten days’ annual leave can be carried forward from one leave year to the next.  Staff must notify their manager of any such annual leave that is carried forward and  approval granted and human resources department is notified. 
o The leave carried forward should normally be taken within the first six months of the  new leave year (i.e. by the end of June).  
o In special circumstances, annual leave in excess of ten days may be carried forward  from one leave year to the next, subject to prior agreement by the individual’s  manager, for example: where a member of staff has been unable to take his/her full  leave entitlement due to work commitments. 
10.2 Annual Shutdown Period 
∙ An annual shutdown takes place between the Christmas and New Year Period. This  ‘shutdown’ applies only to roles that are not critical over this period. Therefore, except  for critical roles and required ‘skeleton staff’, employees will be obligated to take leave  during this period. The relevant working days will be deducted from the employee’s  annual leave entitlement.  
∙ If the employee has insufficient leave, managers will be required to use their discretion 
4 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
to allow the employee to continue into negative leave or to rather work over this period.  ∙ The company will communicate annually to all employees the envisaged shutdown date  for December/January to enable employees to plan their annual leave accordingly.  
10.3 Public Holidays  
∙ The company officially closes for gazetted public holidays.  
∙ Employees do not have to apply to take these days off and these will not be deducted  from annual leave.  
∙ If a gazetted public holiday falls within the annual leave period, the leave balance will be  adjusted. It does not follow that one automatically extends their leave without  consultation with their supervisor. 
∙ Staff who work during the public holiday due to the nature of their work E.g. shifts, will  be granted an off day in lieu of the public holiday worked as the first option or be paid  an equivalent of double the employees normal wage rate for the day. In instances where  the employment act contradicts with Cellulants provision, the employment act  supersedes Cellulant’s provision. 
10.4 Sick Leave  
10.4.1 Sick Leave Entitlement 
∙ Every employee is entitled to a maximum of thirty (30) days of sick leave at full pay in  the case of illness or other incapacity and to an additional thirty (30) days at half pay in a  period of 12 months. In instances where the employment act contradicts with Cellulant’s  provision, the employment act supersedes Cellulant’s provision. 
∙ Sick leave should be applied within 24 hours of falling ill, or within 1st day of resuming  duty if hospitalised. 
∙ Sick leave cannot be accumulated and lapses at the end of the calendar year  ∙ Additional sick leave over and above the policy stipulation will only be granted at  management discretion and in exceptional circumstances.  
∙ Any sick leave taken in excess of the sick leave entitlement will firstly be deducted from  the employee's annual leave and thereafter will be considered to be unpaid leave.  ∙ Where an employee has been on sick leave for excessive periods or has exhausted  his/her sick leave, the company reserves the right to conduct an enquiry into the  employee’s capacity (or incapacity) to perform his/her job. This process will be followed  in line with the company’s incapacity/disciplinary procedure.
5 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
10.4.2 Sick Leave Medical Certificates  
∙ An employee will be required to produce a sick leave medical certificate, signed by a  registered medical practitioner for the period of absence when they are sick. ∙ Failing to produce a medical certificate will result in leave being recovered from annual  leave. Where no annual leave is available leave will be treated as unpaid leave.  ∙ Employees unable to work as a result of an accident or illness are required to notify their  line manager of their absence and likely duration as soon as circumstances permit.  
10.5 Family Responsibility Leave Entitlement  
∙ An employee is entitled to five consecutive paid family responsibility leave days per  annual leave cycle.  
∙ Family responsibility leave will be granted in the following instances: o When an employee’s child is sick;  
o In the event of the death of an immediate family member. Immediate family is  defined as the staff’s registered spouse, staff’s dad and dad in law, staff’s mum and  mum in law, son or daughter. 
o For Religious leave (i.e. non-gazetted religious leave). This is only applicable for  those employees belonging to the respective religions and wishing to observe the  necessary high holy days.  
∙ Family responsibility leave cannot be accumulated and lapses at the end of the annual  leave cycle.  
∙ At management’s discretion, supporting documentation may be requested before family  responsibility leave is granted.  
10.6Maternity leave  
∙ Cellulant provides maternity leave benefits for permanent employees who:  o are pregnant;  
o are adopting children;  
o have suffered a miscarriage in the third trimester;  
o have given birth to a still-born infant.  
10.6.1 Maternity Leave Benefits and Conditions  
∙ In accordance with the Employment Act, the company will grant three month’s  maternity leave to female employees. The three months are counted as 90 continuous 
6 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
days. In instances where the employment act contradicts with Cellulant’s provision, the  employment act supersedes Cellulant’s provision 
∙ Different countries have statutory benefits E.g. Maternity leave allowance, nursing  benefits which Cellulant will offer according to the specific country of operation that the  employee is operating in. 
10.6.2 Stillbirth and Miscarriage  
∙ An employee who has a miscarriage during the third trimester, or bears a stillborn child  is entitled to six weeks' paid maternity leave. Employees will be eligible to be paid 100 %  of their cost to company for the six week period.  
10.6.3 Adoption  
∙ The company will grant three months' paid adoption leave in respect of the adoption of  children up to the age of one year. Adoption leave is not applicable to foster children.  ∙ The employee will be paid 100% of their cost to company for the three months period  
provided that the employee is employed for twelve consecutive months service prior to  the date of adoption. Employees that are employed less than twelve months will be  granted unpaid adoption leave of up to three consecutive months.  
∙ A copy of the order issued by the children’s court must be provided.  
10.6.4 Commencement and granting of Maternity Leave  
∙ An employee is entitled to commence maternity leave four weeks before the expected  date of the birth of the child unless:  
o The employee wishes to continue working and produces a medical certificate from a  medical practitioner or midwife certifying that continuation of work does not pose a  threat to the health and safety of the expectant mother or unborn child;  
o A medical practitioner or midwife certifies that it is necessary for the employee’s  health or that of the unborn child that the employee commences maternity leave at  an earlier date.  
∙ Maternity leave should be applied at least two months before the employee intends to  commence on maternity leave.  
∙ An employee may apply for an extension of the three months maternity period by a  maximum of one additional month if the employee has annual leave due. Manager’s approval of the extension will be based on the operational requirements of the business. 
7 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Employees will be included in the annual increase process whilst on maternity leave. ∙ Employees that are on paid maternity leave will be eligible to earn their full performance  bonus. 
10.6.5 Return to Work  
∙ Employees may not work for six weeks after the birth of the child, unless a medical  practitioner certifies that she is fit to do so.  
∙ On return to work the employee must return on no less favourable terms and conditions  of employment as those she had enjoyed before commencing maternity leave.  
10.6.6 Time off for Pre-natal Appointments  
∙ Time off work will be granted for pregnant employees for their pre-natal check-ups,  subject to:  
o The submission of a medical certificate confirming pregnancy;  
o Authorisation for such leave of absence being obtained twenty four hours before  such absence;  
o Proof of attendance at the clinic or doctor.  
∙ Where possible, appointments for pre-natal check-ups should be made taking into  consideration the company’s core business hours. This means that employees should try  schedule their appointments either in the early morning or late afternoon, thereby  requiring a half day off work.  
10.7 Paternity Leave  
∙ Employees are entitled to fourteen (14) days' paid paternity leave per annual leave cycle  following the birth of a newborn child or adoption of a newborn child up to the age of  one year. In instances where the employment act contradicts with Cellulant’s provision,  the employment act supersedes Cellulant’s provision. 
∙ Paternity leave cannot be accumulated and must be taken within three months of the  birth or adoption of the child.  
∙ Application must be made at least two months before the employee intends to  commence on paternity leave and before commencing, they should provide a birth  notification or birth certificate or adoption court order for adopted children. ∙ For the employee to proceed on paternity leave, the spouse should be the registered one 
8 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
in the employee records and an affidavit or marriage certificate for proof of marriage.  ∙ In exceptional cases where an employee has more than one wife E.g. muslim employees,  the employee needs to declare this in the employment records and have the evidence of  proof of marriage. 
10.8 Special Permission Leave  
∙ Cellulant recognises that, in addition to its obligation to grant statutory leave,  circumstances may arise that warrant the granting of special permission leave that is not  catered for by the other leave categories.  
∙ Special permission leave may be granted in exceptional circumstances only and at the  discretion of the Management. For example, representing one’s country internationally  for sport, or participation in company approved and arranged Corporate Social  Investment initiatives may be regarded as special permission leave.  
∙ Depending on the circumstances, special permission leave may be granted as either paid  or unpaid leave.  
∙ Application should be made two weeks before commencement of the leave. ∙ Supporting documentation may be requested before special leave is granted.  
10.9 Study leave  
∙ The company grants study leave to all employees who undertake courses of study as  approved by the company, at a registered educational institution. 
∙ The course of study i.e. course/certificate/degree/diploma chosen by the employee  must benefit the company and the employee in the capacity in which s/he is employed  or according to career development objectives as agreed between the employee and  his/her manager and as recorded in the employee's personal development plan in the  Performance Management System.  
∙ The maximum number of study leave granted will be ten working days per annum.  ∙ Application should be made two weeks in advance. 
∙ Study leave will be granted on the following basis:  
o One day per subject may be granted for revision purposes for the day  preceding the examination, where such a day falls on an ordinary working  day, except in instances where the examination day falls on a Monday or  after a public holiday, when no leave will be granted; 
9 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
o Study leave is granted on an annual calendar year basis which commences  from 1 January up to and including 31 December of any specific year.  
o Study leave cannot be accumulated and lapses at the end of the annual  calendar year.  
o Applications for study leave for examination purposes and for class  attendance must be supported by reasonable proof such as examination time  table or confirmation of examination admission.  
∙ Generally, employees will not qualify for study leave in respect of any subjects  previously failed or supplementary examinations. However, for technical certifications  manager’s discretion will apply as to whether study leave can be granted.  
10.10 Unpaid Leave  
During any approved period of unpaid leave the following are the provisions: ∙ The employee will not be paid their monthly remuneration  
∙ Application for unpaid leave should be made two weeks before commencement. ∙ A staff will continue to enjoy all other benefits such as medical cover. ∙ Staff will be required to handover work tools e.g. laptop to the Country Manager for  continuity should any data in it be required during the absence. 
∙ If circumstances change and the staff is able to return to work earlier than the reporting  date, he/she will be required to notify HR prior and in writing on the new reporting  date. 
∙ Extensions of the unpaid leave will only be considered on receipt of a formal request 7  days before the originally scheduled return date. 
∙ Upon the expiration of the leave, staff will return to the current position with all other  contractual terms remaining the same. 
∙ If the staff is not able to return to work at the end of the unpaid leave, the staff will be  required to notify HR prior to the reporting date and further hand in a letter of  resignation and adhere to the contract stipulations.  
∙ Staff will not be allowed to hold any other employment while still in employment in employment with Cellulant. 
∙ This type of leave cannot be taken in concurrence with any other types of leave. 
10.11 Incentive Trips and Travel Vouchers  
∙ Employees that qualify to participate in any of the company’s Incentive Trips (Sales 
10 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
Incentive Trip, Excellence Programme, Global Trip etc) are required to use the special  permission leave category to apply for leave. However, this will not affect the  employee’s annual leave balance.  
∙ Employees that are awarded travel voucher incentives are required to apply for annual  leave when redeeming these vouchers for a holiday. 
11 Leave Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016