OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Occupational Health and Safety Policy
	Version 
	V1- 00
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Occupational Health and Safety Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
Cellulant is committed under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 2007 to provide a well-managed health and safety system and to maintain so far as is practicable, workplace  and work environments that are safe. 
3.0 Scope 
This policy covers employees, contractors and other persons using the Company premises,  facilities and equipment. 
4.0 Management’s commitment 
∙ Ensure compliance with all health and safety legislation. This will include carrying out  risk assessments and implementation of a control hierarchy and develop specialist  policies and procedures to facilitate health and safety. 
∙ Implement and maintain an Occupational Health and Safety Management System  through a staged improvement plan and reviews of the safety audit processes. ∙ Maintain and review consultative arrangements with employees, contractors and other  stakeholders and health and safety committee structures to facilitate employee  participation in workplace health and safety 
∙ Ensure that all workplace illnesses, accidents, injuries and near misses are reported,  investigated and appropriate control measures implemented. 
∙ Analyse accidents and incidents to identify trends and implement appropriate controls ∙ Provide the necessary resources to enable managers and employees work together in  addressing health and safety issues. 
∙ Ensure all stakeholders comply with Cellulant’s Occupational Safety and Health Policy. 
5.0 Management Organization and Responsibilities 
At all levels employees have a mandatory responsibility to ensure health and safety for  themselves, the rest of the workforce and any contractors and visitors while in the work  place. 
5.1 Chief Executive Officer 
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for:
2 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Ensuring that the Cellulant’s Occupational health and safety policy is developed,  communicated and implemented by employees at all levels. 
∙ Ensuring the resources necessary for developing and implementing programmes on  promotion of health and safety in Cellulant are budgeted and provided for. ∙ Representing the interests of Cellulant on issues relating to safety and health in high level government and other stakeholder forums. 
5.2 Occupational Health and Safety Coordinator 
The Coordinator shall be responsible for: 
∙ Facilitating achievement of a high standard of safety throughout Cellulant. ∙ Informing Management of all new legislation affecting Cellulant on Occupational Health  and Safety.  
∙ Ensuring that the Occupational Health and Safety policy is effective and updated. ∙ Liaising with the occupational health and safety committee on matters relating to health  and safety. 
∙ Facilitating continual improvement. 
∙ Ensure annual health and safety audits are conducted 
5.3 Managers/Heads of Department 
∙ Ensure that the occupational health and safety policy is implemented within their own  departments.  
∙ Monitor the workplace to ensure that safe working conditions are observed and  maintained.  
∙ Where risks are identified they must ensure that these are rectified, so far as it is  practicable. 
∙ Communicate occupational health and safety policies to employees. ∙ Ensure that accidents, incidents, dangerous occurrences and work related ill health are  reported, recorded, investigated and all steps are taken to prevent possible re occurrence.  
∙ Ensure regular consultative meetings on health and safety are held for their  departments’ health and safety representatives. 
∙ Ensure regular audits are conducted to ensure that instructions given are adhered to. ∙ Ensure employees’ comments on health and safety are given due attention.
3 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Promote and encourage best health and safety practices and minimize losses related to  work place injuries and ill health. 
∙ Act on recommendations Health and Safety Committee to ensure safe and healthy  working conditions. 
5.4 Employees 
Every employee has the responsibility to: 
∙ Not wilfully interfere with or recklessly misuse appliance or anything provided in  pursuance to health and safety and welfare at the workplace. 
∙ Ensure that he/she does not wilfully do anything likely to endanger himself or any other  person or the environment. 
∙ Cooperate with the Management in achieving and maintaining a healthy and safe  workplace. 
∙ Implement the Occupational health and safety policy 
∙ Not undertake any task for which authorization and training has not been given. ∙ Report any dangerous defects in plant and equipment or shortcomings in the existing  safety arrangements to the HOD without delay. 
∙ Report all accidents, incidents and dangerous occurrences. 
6.0 Safety Representatives/Safety Committee Guidelines 
To regulate occupational safety and health activities in workplaces by the owners through  establishment of safety and health committees comprised of safety representatives from  management and workers. 
6.1 Application 
All factories and other workplaces which regularly employ twenty or more employees 
6.2 Formation of safety committee 
∙ Between 20 and 100 regular employees should have not less than 3 safety representative  each from the management and workers 
∙ Between 100 and 1000 regular employees should have not less than 5 safety  representative each from the management and workers
4 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ 1000 and more regular employees should have not less than 7 safety representative each  from the management and workers 
6.3 Terms of Service  
∙ Members will be eligible for three years  
∙ May be re-elected for one further term. 
6.4 Basic training 
Every member of the committee shall undergo a basic course in occupational safety and  health training within a period of six months from the date of appointment or election and  thereafter from time to time 
6.5 Organization of the committee  
∙ Management representatives will be appointed by the employer. 
∙ Workers representatives will be elected by workers and the employer will be the  overseer. 
∙ Consideration to be made during appointment of safety representative includes: o Representation from different departments/ units/sections 
o Representation reflecting gender parity 
6.6 Responsibilities of the committee 
∙ Establish a schedule of inspection of the workplace for each calendar year ∙ Conduct safety and health inspections at least once in every three months ∙ Inspect, investigate and make recommendations to the employer immediately any  accident or dangerous occurrence takes place 
∙ Identify occupational hazards and cases of ill health among workers at the workplace  and make appropriate recommendations to the employer 
∙ Compile statistics of accidents, dangerous occurrences and cases of ill-health as primary  data for providing remedial measures 
∙ Plan and allocation of resources  
∙ Investigate complaints on health, safety and welfare at the workplace  ∙ Advise on the of safety and health measures for hazardous work or activities; ∙ Establish effective communication between the management and the workers
5 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Organize contests or activities on occupational health and safety 
∙ Conduct seminars on safety, health and welfare at the workplace 
6. 7 Meeting and minutes of the committee 
∙ The chairman shall convene a meeting of the committee within twenty-four hours  following any accident or other dangerous occurrence, or the outbreak of an unusual  illness, at the workplace. 
∙ The minutes of the meeting following an accident to be forwarded to the Director of the  Directorate of Occupational Health and Safety within seven days from the date of the  meeting. 
∙ The director or his representative may, on his own initiative or upon invitation by the  chairman, attend a meeting of the committee. 
∙ At least seven days’ written notice of every meeting of the committee to be given to  every member of the committee. 
∙ The committee may co-opt into its membership one or more persons by reason of their  particular knowledge and/or experience in health and safety matters as an advisory  member of the committee. 
∙ The director may require the employer to furnish his office with a schedule of the  meetings of the committee for each year or part thereof, and the proceedings of the same. 
6.8 Roles of the Chairman 
The chairman of the Committee shall: 
∙ Preside over all committee meetings at which he is present; 
∙ Keep the members informed of the safety and health policy of the organization; ∙ Assist the Committee in setting its objectives and its scope of activities; and ∙ Assign responsibilities to members. 
6.9 Roles of the Secretary 
The Secretary to the Committee shall: 
∙ Arrange and co-ordinate Committee meetings in consultation with the chairman ∙ Take minutes at Committee meetings; 
∙ Maintain an up to date record of the activities of the Committee; 
∙ Obtain and analyse statistics for Committee meetings;
6 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Co-ordinate and monitor occupational safety and health programmes; ∙ Disseminate safety and health information to members; 
∙ Draw up safety and health inspection schedules; 
∙ Ensure that all reports arising from the functions of the Committee, the director, or  persons approved under these rules or under the Act are availed to the Committee. 
6.10 Roles of the members 
The members of the Committee shall 
∙ Attend all Committee meetings; 
∙ Provide feedback to their departments or units on safety, health and welfare issues  raised in the meetings. 
∙ Set good examples of safe and healthy work practices; 
∙ Participate in the training of workers in matters related to health and safety; ∙ Provide written recommendations to the employer on areas and issues requiring action  following inspections carried out under these rules. 
∙ Monitor compliance with safety and health rules in their respective departments or  units; 
6.11 The duties of the employer 
The employer shall: 
∙ Provide, at no cost to the Committee, a suitable venue and other facilities for holding  Committee meeting;  
∙ Allow members to attend the meetings and other functions of the Committee without  loss of earnings, opportunities for promotion or advancement; 
∙ Ensure that all safety representatives have undertaken the training courses organized  for purposes of these Rules; 
∙ Provide the Committee with: 
o Any information or report on any accidents, dangerous occurrences and  incidents of occupational diseases immediately it comes to his knowledge; o Statistics of accidents, dangerous occurrences, and incidents of occupational  diseases; 
o All the necessary and relevant information on hazardous substances; o Safety and health reference material or facilities;
7 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Cause the monitoring and evaluation of hazards and risks identified by the Committee  to be carried out by a competent person; 
∙ Develop a clearly defined safety and health policy and bring it to the notice of all  employees at the work place, and send a copy of the policy to the Director of DOHSS ∙ Facilitate the implementation and review of the organization’s safety and health policy; ∙ Make available to the Committee legislation on occupational safety and health; ∙ Make a report to the director on all accidents as required under the principal Act; ∙ Chair meetings, and, in his absence delegate the function to a senior member of the  management; 
∙ Cause to be maintained a record of the proceedings of Committee meetings and reports  of the audit referred to in these rules; and 
∙ Ensure that all matters set out in these Rules are complied with. 
7.0 Safety and Health advisers 
∙ Be a competent person appointed by the director of DOHSS 
∙ Any person who holds a minimum qualification of a certificate in occupational safety  and health from a recognised institution and has proven practical experience in this field  for a minimum period of five years.  
∙ Carry out safety and health audits of the workplace at the request of the employer. ∙ Advise the employer and members of the committee on occupational health and safety  matters arising from the audit report. 
∙ Submit a copy of the audit report to the director. 
8.0 The requirement of Health and safety audit 
∙ Every workplace shall be audited at least once in every period of twelve months. ∙ The audit will be carried out by a registered safety and health adviser at such fee as may  be agreed upon with such adviser 
∙ The report of the audit shall be kept by the employer. 
∙ A copy of the same shall be submitted to the director of DOHSS within a period of thirty  days following the audit
8 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
9.0 Penalty  
Fines will be up to fifty thousand shillings or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to both such fine and imprisonment if an auditor, 
∙ Fails to make a report; 
∙ Makes a report which is false or deficient in its technical content; 
∙ Fails to send to the director a copy of any report as required. 
10.0 Training  
∙ Every member of the Committee shall undertake a prescribed training course in  occupational health and safety within a period of 6 months from the date of appointment  or election and thereafter, further training from time to time. 
∙ Occupational Health & Safety training shall be incorporated into annual training  programmes. Health and Safety training needs will, therefore, be identified and planned  for in the same manner as other training needs. 
∙ The following areas shall be given special priority: 
o Training for managers, to equip them with an understanding of the managers’  responsibilities under this policy, the role and purpose of health and safety  representatives. 
o Training for health and safety representatives to enable them discharge their  functions effectively. 
o Training for all members of staff to acquaint them with the main provisions of  the law and its practical implication and the main features of this policy and key  safety rules. 
o Induction for staff at all levels to acquaint them fully with requirements and  hazards. 
11.0 Fire 
∙ Fire precautions will comply with The Occupational Health and Safety Act 2007 and  reference will be made to the Fire and Safety policy. 
12.0 Plant and Machinery 
∙ Signs and posters relevant to the safe operation of machinery shall be prominently displayed. All machinery shall be fully guarded and be well maintained.
9 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
13.0 Personal Protective Clothing 
All employees involved in operations that require them to have protective clothing and  equipment will be provided with the same by Cellulant. 
14.0 Drinking Water 
All employees shall have access to clean drinking water during working hours. 
15.0 Toilets 
∙ Cellulant shall provide proper toilet facilities that are kept clean and hygienic.  ∙ Adequate hand-washing facilities will be available and conveniently accessible. 
16.0 Food Hygiene 
Cellulant will strive to guarantee food safety for the meals that it provides. All incidents related  to Food Safety will be investigated in line with the Food Safety Procedures. 
17.0 Lifting and Handling 
Heads of Departments are responsible for informing staff of safe lifting techniques.  
18.0 Smoking 
∙ Cellulant is a no smoking zone.  
∙ There will be signs clearly indicating this and all employees and visitors to Cellulant must  adhere to these rules. 
19.0 Noise Prevention and Control 
Cellulant will ensure compliance with the Factories and other Places of Work (Noise Prevention and Control) Rules 2005.  
20.0 Waste / Effluent Disposal 
To ensure that waste is disposed-off safely and in accordance with the statutory  requirements. Two steps shall be followed:- 
∙ Waste shall not be allowed to accumulate but will be regularly removed to properly  marked and suitable containers.
10 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Ensure compliance with the duty of care imposed by the Environmental Management  and Coordination Act 1999 and all relevant waste regulations. 
21.0 Non –Employees 
Cellulant shall ensure that the health and safety of visitors to Company establishments is of  the highest standard.  
22.0 Risk Assessment 
A detailed risk assessment will be carried for all activities. In each case the following will be  described; tools and equipment used, possible risks defined, precautions required, training  needs for safe working practices, any personal protective equipment needed, supervision  level required, whether a permit to work is required. 
23.0 Publicising and promoting the policy 
Cellulant’s statement of the policy will be brought to the attention of each employee in any  of the following ways; 
∙ Affixing the policy statement to accessible notice boards 
∙ Carrying out induction training on the first day of service. 
24.0 Disciplinary action 
The management will take disciplinary action as per the disciplinary policy against  individuals who continually expose themselves or others to unnecessary health and safety  risks.
11 Occupational Health and Safety Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016