SALARY ADMINISTRATION POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Salary Administration Policy
	Version 
	V - 01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved  by:
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Salary Administration Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
This procedure serves as the basis for consistent and equitable salary decisions within  Cellulant. 
3.0 Scope 
It applies to all employees of Cellulant. 
4.0 General Provisions 
∙ Job Grades 
o All positions in Cellulant are graded and have a salary scale. 
o The job grading will be conducted from time to time and the salary scales  adjusted accordingly. 
∙ Salary for hiring and increaments will be established consistent with the following  factors.  
o Individual credentials and experience will be compared to those in similar  positions in the employing department and, if applicable, across the company. o Individual credentials and experience will be compared to the relevant  competitive market.  
o The individual's expected level of performance will be considered.  o The level of available funding within the employing department and company. o Job grade and salary scale for the position. 
o Regulatory compliance. 
∙ Human resources department will periodically review and recommend adjustment to  the pay structure.  
∙ The effective date of pay adjustment will be administered as follows:  o If pay approval is granted on or before the 15th of the month, the salary change  will be retroactive to beginning of that month.  
o If pay approval is granted after the 15th of the month, the salary change becomes  effective on the first day of the following month. 
5.0 Salary Administration Guidelines 
5.1 Salary on hire 
∙ Minimum salary – a new employee must be offered at least the minimum salary for the  pay grade.
2 Salary Administration Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Starting salary – Prospective employees with demonstrated competencies above the  minimum qualifications for the position may be offered a starting salary up to the first  third of the salary range of the pay grade.  
5.2 Underfill 
∙ From time to time, recruiting conditions may be such that a person with minimum  qualifications cannot be recruited due to various prevailing circumstances. In such cases  an under-qualified person with high potential may be hired. 
∙ When an underfill situation exists, a detailed personal coaching plan, including specified  timelines and deliverables must be drafted, discussed and signed by both the  supervising manager and the employee. 
∙ Upon successful completion of the coaching plan, the employee is confirmed to the  position and the salary is adjusted to the appropriate salary band for the new position. 
5.3 Annual Merit Increases 
∙ The criteria for merit salary increases shall be developed by the human resources  department in consultation with the Finance department and approved by the Chief  Executive Officer. 
∙ Eligibility – to be eligible for a merit salary increase, an employee must have: o no disciplinary action in the last six months immediately preceding the effective  date of the increase  
o Been in employment for six months immediately preceding the effective date of  the increase  
o Six months must have elapsed since the employees last merit salary increase. o Achieved stipulated performance criteria on individual and pre-defined business  performance. 
5.4 Across the board salary increases 
Increases will be given to all eligible staff at the rate authorized which may result in an  increase above the maximum of the salary range. 
5.5 Market adjustment  
Market adjustments are based on external benchmarking conducted by human resources.
3 Salary Administration Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
5.6 Cost of Living Adjustments (COLA)  
∙ Periodic increase in wages or salaries to compensate for loss in purchasing power of  money due to inflation. 
∙ Rates of increase are based on statistics from relevant Government bodies. 
5.7 Individual salary increases  
∙ Individual salary increases may be given with recommendation and written justification  from Lime Manager and the review and approval of human resources and the chief  financial officer.  
∙ This increment can be given to retain an important skill set or as a remedy for internal  pay equity. 
5.8 Promotion  
∙ A promotional increase shall be at least a 10% increase in salary upwards. In a situation  where an employee’s pay is below the minimum salary of the pay grade after the  promotional increase an additional increase should be made to bring the employee to the  minimum salary of the pay grade. 
5.9 Reinstated employee salary rate 
An employee returning from an approved leave of absence without pay is entitled to his or  her most recent rate of pay.  
5.10 Lateral Transfer 
A lateral transfer involves no change in pay grade. The employee will retain their current  salary. 
5.11 Salary after re-grading 
∙ If a position is re-graded to a higher grade, the position holder will be given an increase  to at least above the minimum salary for the pay grade of the new grade. ∙ If the salary already being earned is above the minimum, then there will be no salary  change. 
∙ If the position is graded to a lower grade, the employee will retain his/her existing  salary.
4 Salary Administration Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
5.12 Demotion 
∙ An employee’s move to a lower graded position could be the result of voluntary transfer  to a lower graded position, or involuntary transfer to a lower graded position due to  their inability to meet requirements of the position or in order to address performance  issues.  
∙ The demoted employee will retain his/her current salary.  
∙ All future increments will be subject to the grading scale of the new position.
5 Salary Administration Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016