TRAVEL POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Travel Policy
	Version 
	V1- 01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Administration Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Role/Function 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Purity Kariuki 
	Executive Assistant 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Change Notice 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



1Travel Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
The policy provides a framework for requesting, processing, administration and  implementation of all business related travel within Cellulant. All business-related travels paid with Cellulant funds must comply with company expenditure policies. 
3.0 Scope 
This policy is applicable to all employees of Cellulant and any consultants so authorised to  conduct business including travel on behalf of Cellulant. 
4.0 Authorization and responsibility 
∙ Staff travel must be authorized. 
∙ At least one week in advance of the trip, the traveller must submit a Travel Requisition  form which must be signed by the Manager responsible for the particular travel budget.  ∙ All travel needs to be approved by Finance Manager/CFO and they must sign off on all  travel requisitions. 
∙ The reason for the travel must be clearly stipulated and in line with the business  objectives.  
∙ The person in charge of coordinating travel will guide/assist the traveller to ensure this  is done. 
5.0 Personal funds 
∙ Travellers should confirm reimbursement guidelines before spending personal funds for  business travel to determine if such expenses are reimbursable.  
∙ Cellulant reserves the right to deny reimbursement of travel-related expenses for failure  to comply with policies and procedures.  
∙ Travellers who use personal funds to facilitate travel arrangements will not be  reimbursed until after the trip occurs and proper documentation is submitted. 
6.0 Holiday in conjunction with business travel 
∙ In cases in which holiday time is added to a business trip, any cost variance in airfare,  car rental or lodging must be clearly identified on the Travel Request form.  ∙ Cellulant will not prepay any personal expenses with the intention of being “repaid” at a  later time, nor will any personal expenses be reimbursed.
2 Travel Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Sign: Date:  Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Sign: Date: 
7.0 Travel Expenses/Procedures 
∙ General information - Authorized business travel for staff that includes prepayments  must be pre-approved. For pre-approved requests as well as for reimbursement of  expenses have to be submitted on a Travel Requisition form. 
∙ Permissible prepaid travel expenses - Before the travel, Cellulant will issue approval for  airfare, and pre-payments for accommodation, and per diem (cash). Applicable policies  and methods of payments for these prepayments will be applied. 
∙ Airfare - This is obtained from the Company’s travel agent (currently Tamu Africa Tours  & Travel) at the lowest available economy class airfare that reasonably meets business  travel needs. (Currently this applies to all staff). Travellers are encouraged to submit  their travel requests as early as possible (at least one week in advance) to avoid premium  airfare pricing.  
∙ Taxi / Airport Transfers – This will be provided by the Company vehicles or contracted  taxis. 
8.0 Travel advances 
Cash advances are authorized as per the guidelines below: 
8.1 Accommodation 
Accommodation will be reserved either by credit card, credit terms or cash. Cash will be  provided after receipt of a proforma invoice from the said hotel. The policy is to reserve a  comfortable and clean hotel but at a reasonable cost therefore a standard non-smoking room  is automatically reserved by the admin support person responsible. 
8.2 Per Diem 
Per Diem is intended to cover for daily expenses while on travel except accommodation paid  for by the company on B&B.
Country/Region 
	Amount per night spent
	African countries 
	$50
	Europe 
	€100
	UK 
	£100
	US 
	$150
	



3 Travel Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Sign: Date:  Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Sign: Date: 
In the event the business covers all the daily expenses, an out of work station allowance will  be provided to cover incidentals of $10 per night spent. Where all expenses except lunch are  offered per diem will be given at $ 20 per night spent. 
9.0 Travel Insurance 
∙ Cellulant has secured travel insurance with Resolution Health for anyone traveling on  behalf of the business.  
∙ Cellulant would like to ensure that the member of staff is safe and secure while  traveling.  
∙ This is calculated on a per day basis. 
10.0 Reimbursements 
All expenses will be paid and per diem provided beforehand, therefore reimbursements are  not expected. However, should this unexpectedly arise while on travel, the manager in charge should be made aware for approval and the below process of reimbursement follows: ∙ Requests for reimbursements of travel-related expenses are submitted on a Travel  Reimbursement form.  
∙ This form must be accompanied by supporting documentation (hotel invoices and  receipts). 
∙ The Travel Reimbursement form must be signed by the Finance Manager/CFO ∙ These forms must be submitted to the business office within two weeks after the trip is  completed. If this time frame lapses with no claim, the reimbursements will be forfeited. ∙ Reimbursement of travel expenses is based on documentation of reasonable and actual  expenses supported by the original, itemized receipts where required.  
11.0 Non-reimbursable Travel Expenses 
The following items that may be associated with business travel will not be reimbursed. ∙ Costs incurred by traveller’s failure to cancel travel or hotel reservations in a timely  fashion. 
∙ No show and change of reservation flight penalties and charges which are not business  related and approved 
∙ Evening or formal wear expenses. 
∙ Haircuts and personal grooming.
4 Travel Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Sign: Date:  Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Sign: Date: 
∙ Laundry and dry cleaning. 
∙ Passports, vaccinations and visas when not required as a specific and necessary  condition of the travel assignment. 
∙ Personal entertainment expenses. 
∙ Other expenses not directly related to the business travel. 
12.0 Travel for Non-Employees  
Additional costs for travel, lodging, meal or other travel expenses for spouses or other  family members will not be reimbursed.
5 Travel Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Sign: Date:  Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Sign: Date: