HIV AIDS POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	HIV AIDS Policy
	Version 
	V1- 00
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1HIV AIDS Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
The purpose is to create awareness on the roles of Cellulant and employees with regards to  HIV/AIDS in ensuring a safe workplace. 
3.0 Scope 
This policy is applicable to all employees of Cellulant. 
4.0 Objectives 
The objective of this policy is to: 
∙ To protect the human rights and dignity of HIV/AIDS infected employees. ∙ To increase awareness within the Cellulant regarding HIV/AIDS. 
∙ To foster a spirit of understanding and compassion for HIV/AIDS infected employees. 
5.0 Role of the Employer 
∙ Encouraging voluntary HIV/AIDS counselling and testing sessions to employees. ∙ Providing HIV/AIDS care and support e.g. counselling and antiretroviral drugs within  the limits set in the medical policy for an employee who is found to be infected with  HIV/AIDS. 
∙ Ensuring the HIV/AIDS status of an employee is kept confidential and that any tests  results or any related assessment results are not disclosed without the written consent of  the employee. 
∙ Ensuring an employee is not denied an opportunity to which they are entitled to as an  employee because they are HIV+ or have AIDS, or are perceived or suspected to have  HIV/AIDS.  
Role of Employee 
∙ Taking care of own health which includes being aware of their HIV status, perception of  own risk and steps to modify risky behaviour at the work place and beyond. ∙ Voluntarily attending provided HIV/AIDS training and education sessions to ensure  that they have the right knowledge and skills to take necessary action for their own  protection and protection of others.
2 HIV AIDS Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 
Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 : 
∙ Maintaining a safe and healthy working environment to reduce risk of HIV infection and  /or transmission. 
∙ Exercising due care and responsibility at all times with regard to the spread of infections  and diseases including HIV/AIDS. 
3 HIV AIDS Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 
Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 :