PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Performance Management Policy
	Version 
	V - 01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Performance Management Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
This policy document outlines the Performance Management System for Cellulant. Cellulant is committed to fostering a high performance culture. To achieve this, Cellulant  strives to provide each staff member with clear performance objectives, on-going coaching  and feedback sessions, professional development and recognition for outstanding work. 
3.0 Scope 
The scope of this policy encompasses: goal setting, performance review process, job  descriptions and performance enhancement plans.  
It is applicable to all staff working at Cellulant. This policy is not applicable to contractors,  temporary employees, attachees and interns. Contractors, temporary employees, attachees  and Interns are not bonus eligible nor are they required to complete performance objectives or review. The legal agreement entered into with any contractor, temporary employee,  attachees or intern should incorporate performance criteria. 
4.0 Purpose  
The purpose of this policy is to contribute to enhanced performance of staff by ensuring: ∙ employees perform work that accomplishes the business needs of Cellulant ∙ employees work aligns with the strategic goals of the departments and the  organizational values of Cellulant 
∙ employees clearly understand the quality and quantity of work expected ∙ employees receive on-going information about how effectively they are performing  relative to expectations 
∙ rewards are consistent with employee performance 
∙ opportunities for employee development are identified and provided ∙ employee performance that does not meet expectations is addressed ∙ management applies performance ratings in a fair and consistent manner 
5.0 Requirements of an effective performance management system 
∙ Requires a shared responsibility between supervisor and employee.  ∙ Clarifies and aligns performance objectives with Cellulant goals, objectives and values.  ∙ Includes feedback and coaching concerning job performance.  
∙ Identifies training and professional development needs. 
2 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Measures and documents performance.  
∙ Provides a framework for performance enhancement. 
∙ Provides input for decisions (e.g. rewards, recognition, etc.). 
6.0 Key Foundational Elements  
∙ Performance planning – Clear performance objectives should be identified and  communicated at the beginning and throughout the performance cycle.  ∙ Coaching – Supervisors should use coaching to help employees develop and use their  talents for individual and Cellulant success. Coaching should occur on a regular basis  and include a discussion of professional development.  
∙ One on one chats – Supervisors should conduct on a minimum bi-weekly one on one  chats with their staff. 
∙ Feedback – Feedback is information about observed behaviour that is appreciative or  constructive. It is often helpful for staff to receive feedback from more than one source.  Customers, peers and direct reports can provide important feedback to supplement the  supervisor’s observations. 
∙ Performance review – This is the culminating communication of the performance cycle,  focusing on areas of achievement, areas for improvement and goals for the future. 
7.0 Definitions 
∙ Alignment - refers to synchronization between top management and the workforce.  Performance goals for individuals and teams should be aligned with the organization’s  goals. Ideally, each level of goals should ―cascade‖ from the goal level above.  ∙ Performance coaching is: 
o A series of conversations that are designed and conducted to enhance someone's  well-being or performance. 
o A process that both parties enter into willingly with clear expectations and  agreements on how the process will work. 
o A relationship, or partnership, that allows anything to be asked, said or  considered. 
o Based on the premise that performance in any field can be enhanced by creating a  partnership and setting aside time to explore in conversation how performance  might be taken to a new level.
3 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Competencies performance criteria based on values. Cellulant defines competencies  expected of their employees at each level and measure performance against these  competencies.  
∙ Goals objectives set to drive performance toward achievement. They are expectations for  outcomes agreed upon by employer and employee. These may be project goals, duties to  be fulfilled or measurements of values. 
∙ Individual development plans (IDPs) - Individual development plans fall outside the  scope of the Performance Improvement Plan Standard, but are defined here to  distinguish their purpose and use. An individual development plan (also known as a  career development plan) may be used in conjunction with the performance appraisal  process as a final documented step to assist employees in goal setting and individual  development for future career planning purposes. It may or may not indicate a  performance deficiency, but usually forms the basis for a strategic partnership between  the manager and the employee to achieve goals in a defined upcoming performance  period for the employee’s personal career development.  
∙ Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Quantifiable performance measures based on  predetermined success factors of a business, department or project. KPIs may vary by  project, department or business, be weighted differently by each project, department or  business, and be either financial, nonfinancial or both.  
∙ Performance Improvement Plan (PIP). A documented process specifically developed to  address an individual’s unsatisfactory performance issues. The PIP may be used by  managers as a means to identify specific goals for an employee’s performance  improvement, timelines for goal attainment and measurable outcomes that define  success against those goals. PIP may emerge as an outcome or recommendation of a  performance review or may be used on an as-needed basis outside the employer’s  regular performance review cycle.  
∙ SMART – An acronym that captures the elements of effective goals: Specific,  Measurable, Achievable (or Attainable), Relevant (or Realistic, Reasonable) and Time Bound.  
8.0 Overview of the Performance Management System 
Performance management is the system of maintaining or improving the job performance of  employees through the use of performance planning processes, along with coaching,  mentoring and providing continuous feedback.
4 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
At Cellulant, performance reviews will ensure they capture and specifically focus on:  ∙ Motivation and learning 
∙ Coaching and mentoring 
∙ Effective methods of recognition 
∙ Effective methods of communication 
9.0 Role of Manager and Employee 
Regular, formal and constructive communication is the central mission of the performance  review process. To facilitate this objective, both the employee and his or her manager  conducting the performance review should be equally informed and aware in advance of  the steps in the process, how it works, why employee performance is evaluated and what  the expectations are after the review is completed. 
9.0.1 Role of Manager 
∙ For goal setting, the manager communicates his or her expectations and goals to the  employee and works collaboratively to develop individual goals in alignment with  organization goals.  
∙ For the review itself, the role of the manager is to ensure that the employee’s  performance review is conducted fairly, objectively and in accordance with the  organization’s policies and procedures.  
∙ The manager is responsible for observing and documenting both successful and  unsuccessful performance behaviours of the employee or team over the period of the  review cycle.  
∙ The manager is accountable for providing continuous feedback to the employee about  his or her performance. To be maximally effective, performance management is not a  once-a-year activity—it is a continuous dialogue between a manager and an employee. 
∙ The manager is responsible for translating performance observations into a documented  format that is accessible to the employee and for incorporating these observations into  the organization’s selected performance management process.  
∙ The manager is expected to communicate clear examples of successful or unsuccessful  behavior by the employee. It is the manager’s duty to deliver the performance message  to the employee in a manner that informs, teaches, directs and coaches. At the  conclusion of an effective performance review, the employee will know what will be 
5 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
expected of him or her going forward.  
∙ The manager is expected to document any differing opinion with the employee  regarding the review.  
∙ The manager must sign and date all reviews. For PIPs, the manager’s role is to outline  expectations clearly and to monitor progress and administer consequences fairly.  
9.0.2 Role of Employee 
∙ For goal setting, it is the employee’s role to participate in developing SMART goals  aligned with the organization’s goals and to commit to them in good faith.  ∙ For the performance review, the role of the employee is to participate in the performance  review process in a constructive manner. The goals of the review are greatly enhanced  when the employee contributes in an active rather than passive manner.  ∙ The employee should be aware and respectful of his or her manager’s authority and  responsibility to conduct the performance review.  
∙ The employee is expected to take the observations, feedback and goals outlined and  incorporate them into his or her future work performance.  
∙ It is the duty of the employee to ask questions and/or raise issues with the manager  when the employee feels his or her performance has not been measured or documented  fairly and accurately. If these questions or issues cannot be resolved in a discussion, the  two parties should escalate for resolution to the next level manager or HR department. 
∙ The employee is expected to sign and date his or her review, acknowledging that he or  she has received the review. 
10.0 Performance Goal Setting 
10.0.1 Types of Goals  
∙ Job Description Goals - Goals may be based on achievement of a pre-established set of  job duties. These goals are expected to be accomplished continuously until the job  description changes. Examples might be financial, customer oriented, or process- or  system-oriented goals.  
∙ Project Goals - Goals may be based on achievement of a project objective. These goals  may be set for a single year and changed as projects are completed. Job description and  project goals are ―what‖ needs to be accomplished.  
∙ Values -Goals may be based on certain behaviours. These goals are expected to be  accomplished continuously. 
6 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Stretch Goals-Goals that are especially challenging to reach are sometimes referred to as  stretch goals. Stretch goals are usually used to expand the knowledge, skills and abilities  of high-potential employees; however, some organizations require at least one stretch  goal for every employee.  
10.0.2 Elements of Effective Goals  
An effective goal should clearly describe the expected outcome/result in a qualitative  and/or quantitative manner and set a timeline for reaching the expected outcome/result. The development of effective goals carries a number of required elements: ∙ Effective goals should be participative. Both manager and staff should be involved in the  development of goals to ensure understanding and commitment.  
∙ Effective goals should be documented. Whether documented in electronic or hard copy  format, goals need to be stored accurately, be available for review and be managed on a  continuous basis.  
∙ Effective goals should be specific, providing a defined result(s). 
∙ Effective goals should be measurable, providing a statement of not only the current state  but also the desired result.  
∙ Effective goals should be challenging but attainable.  
∙ Effective goals should be reasonable. They must be relevant to the individual’s current  scope of responsibilities and within the individual’s means to achieve the desired  outcome.  
∙ Effective goals should reflect a time frame by which the desired result should be achieved.  
∙ Effective goals should be flexible enough to account for changing conditions. 
11.0 Performance Evaluation  
∙ Performance evaluation involves the objective and subjective consideration of how to  measure and evaluate employee performance results.  
∙ Objective indicators of performance can include measures such as volume of sales,  profitability or amount of product produced. Subjective indicators typically involve  collecting information about employees’ accomplishments and assessing the impact of  these contributions and adherence to business values. 
∙ Performance evaluation information is used for decision-making purposes regarding  employee performance—is there a need for performance improvement; is performance 
7 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
satisfactory; is the employee ready for promotion to a new role? A measurement scale  may be used to capture employee performance results. Whether numerical or  descriptive, the rating scale should provide a sufficient number of rating levels to  differentiate performance among employees.  
∙ Evaluating performance includes consideration of the full array of factors associated  with employee performance success. These address the knowledge, skills, abilities and  personal characteristics possessed by the employee as they are related to the technical,  interpersonal and leadership requirements of the role in question.  
∙ Mission brief, job descriptions, role profiles, competency models and other  organizational documentation provide a foundation for understanding the demands of  particular job positions.  
∙ The manager’s ongoing assessment of employee performance throughout the review  period in terms of both objective and subjective performance indicators provides  information about how the employee is performing relative to his or her role.  
∙ Formal and informal observation and feedback from the manager to the employee are an  important part of the performance evaluation process.  
12.0 Performance Review Process  
The performance review process will include:  
∙ A feedback process that is continuous and timely throughout the review period so that  employees know how they are doing and what is expected.  
∙ One on one chats that include performance feedback measured against clear and specific  goals and expectations established at the outset of the performance management cycle.  ∙ A process for acknowledging the outcomes of the performance review process that is  documented between the manager and the employee.  
13.0 Performance Feedback  
∙ Feedback is an essential feature of all stages of the performance review process. During  the performance planning process, both behavioural and results expectations should  have been set.  
∙ Performance in both of these areas should be discussed and feedback provided on an on going basis throughout the performance evaluation and rating processes.  ∙ In addition to providing feedback whenever exceptional or ineffective performance is  observed, providing periodic feedback about day-to-day accomplishments and 
8 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
contributions is recommended.  
∙ For the feedback process to work well, it should be a two-way communication process  that is the joint responsibility of both managers and employees. This method requires  awareness to both managers and employees about their responsibilities in the  performance feedback process.  
∙ Effective feedback should be timely, constructive, specific, and should include both  positive and development information based on what the employee did or did not do in  terms of his or her behaviour.  
∙ It is critical that feedback be based on behaviours rather than on personal characteristics  and that these behaviours are linked to effective versus ineffective performance. 
14.0 Performance Rating 
Individual Performance (IP) is measured by: 
∙ How the employee performed in his/her role compared to the expectations that were set  and discussed at the beginning of the financial year. 
Performance Rating Performance Description 
Very Good 
	Outstanding performance against goals. Consistently meets and  exceeds expectations 
Performance levels of a higher degree than targets. Highly competent  individual who required minimal supervision.
	Good 
	Meets performance expectations. Performance levels are as required. Has competencies to perform well but still requires some guidance.
	Average 
	Does not meet performance expectations all the time and those that  have been met are only to the average required. 
Requires Manager direction, checking and supervision. Room for improvement and development to do more than average 
	Below Average 
	Performance is below expectation and most key objectives are not met.  Low level performance and requires considerable day to day  supervision and guidance.
	



∙ Within each department, and/or team, there should be a reasonable bell-curve  distribution to reflect a realistic view of performance across the company in order to  ensure that we clearly identify top performers and below average performers. 
∙ It is expected that line managers will practice consequence management in dealing with  below average performers.
9 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
15.0 Performance coaching plan 
∙ A performance coaching plan is a process used to resolve persistent performance  problems in accordance with a documented procedure.  
∙ It is used by management with the support of human resources and includes elements  such as current and expected performance, timelines, measures of performance  improvement, and potential outcomes based on whether sufficient improvement was  achieved.  
∙ It provides an avenue for open dialogue and consistent feedback, which can allow an  employee who is not meeting expectations the opportunity to succeed or the manager to  prepare for progressive disciplinary actions.  
∙ A performance coaching plan includes both the feedback conversation and  documentation.  
15.0.1 PCP appropriate uses and outcomes  
The uses of a PCP may range from employees who may be: 
∙ New to a role  
∙ Who are unclear on performance expectations 
∙ Who are regularly not meeting performance expectations  
∙ Whose performance may necessitate the beginning of a progressive improvement or  discipline process.  
The PCP process may lead to a number of possible outcomes including: ∙ A return to good performance 
∙ Extension of the timeline for correcting the performance discrepancy ∙ Job reassignment  
∙ Training interventions 
∙ Termination 
15.0.2 The PCP Format and Documentation  
∙ Support documentation includes mission brief, job descriptions, human resource policies  and documented performance management processes such as manager guidelines and  standard operating procedures.  
∙ The format of the performance improvement plan will vary by employer and should  include the following components: 
10 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
o Employee information.  
o Description of performance discrepancy/gap.  
o Description of expected performance.  
o Description of actual performance.  
o Plan of action.  
o Signatures of the manager and the employee.  
o Evaluation of plan of action and overall performance improvement plan.  o Two dates must be included on the performance improvement plan: the date on  which the PCP is initiated and the duration of the PCP.  
o The plan should also note the dates or frequency of progress reviews during the  duration of the plan—such as once a week.  
o The PCP should identify the specific facts about performance results and/or  behavioural issues that describe and demonstrate the performance discrepancy. o The information should be specific and factual (i.e., not hearsay, opinions,  generalized or vague references).  
o A statement regarding expectations for sustained and/or consistent performance  should be included to ensure that true performance improvement has been  attained.  
∙ If the PCP is part of a progressive discipline process that may eventually lead to  termination of employment, language in the document should specify that termination is  a possible consequence of failure to meet expectations and that it may occur.  
∙ The employee should clearly understand the consequences of not meeting the goals  outlined in the PCP. 
16.0 Coaching sessions 
Performance coaching can be described as a series of guided conversations that enable the  ―coachee‖ to discover and implement personal solutions to challenging issues or areas of  performance. These solutions, because they are intrinsic to the ―coachee,‖ are more likely to  succeed and endure than solutions imposed externally. 
Coaching sessions are not: 
∙ Giving advice, being the expert or having the answers 
∙ Fixing people 
∙ Doing it for them
11 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Policing or getting people to work harder 
∙ A close, personal relationship 
∙ A replacement for supervision or management 
Coaching sessions are: 
∙ Listening in a profound way 
∙ Asking questions that cause new thinking and possible actions 
∙ Hearing limitations in the other person’s speaking 
∙ A place where people can think out loud 
∙ Getting the most value and learning from an experience 
∙ Acknowledging people for who they are and what they produce 
∙ Generating possibility and keeping it alive 
∙ A way of allowing people to change how they are relating to something ∙ A place to vent, experiment and play with ideas 
∙ Confidential 
∙ A supportive relationship 
∙ A structure for making things happen 
17.0 One-On-One Meetings 
One-on-one meetings between the direct report and their manager provide an uninterrupted  private time to receive and discuss the employee’s status while at the same time providing  an avenue for personalized feedback and mentoring. The time is focused on meeting the  individual needs of the employee while at the same time providing timely and accurate  status to the manager. 
17.1 The Basics of One-On-One Meetings 
One-on-one meetings between the direct report and their manager provide an uninterrupted  private time to receive and discuss the direct report’s project status while at the same time  providing an avenue for personalized feedback, coaching and mentoring. The time is  focused on meeting the individual needs of the direct report while at the same time  providing timely and accurate status to the manager. 
17.1.0 Scheduled and Never Missed 
One-on-one meetings should be consistently scheduled for the same time each week. This 
12 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
develops the habit for managers and direct reports. However, that is not always possible. If  one needs to pre-empt a one-on-one meeting, reschedule it as soon as possible after the  original booking, or even better, before. This shows commitment to the meeting. This  commitment is important to the long-term success. Habitually cancelling one-on-one  meetings undermines their usefulness and can disenfranchise employees. 
17.1.1 Safe Environment 
One-on-one meetings should be primarily about accurate status for the manager, and  continuous improvement for the employee. In order to get the maximum benefit from the  one-on-one meeting must create a non-threatening meeting environment. Managers should  provide constructive feedback on how to prevent issues from recurring, not blame for what  has occurred. If a manager starts with the blame game, the direct reports may close down,  and then they won’t get the information needed until it is too late to fix it. 
If there is need to discipline a direct report, set up a time separate from the one-on-one  meeting time to discuss disciplinary issues. 
17.1.2 Eliminate Interruptions 
This is time of mangers with their direct reports. If you want to get maximum productivity  out of the one-on-one meetings, managers need to make the direct reports feel like for this  half an hour they have your undivided attention. This means absolutely no interruptions.  
17.1.3 Scheduling 
One-on ones should be one hour, every bi-weekly, scheduled, and have a specific agenda. If  a manager has a large number of staff, they will most likely need to be somewhat creative in  the booking of the one-on-one meetings. It is important to remember that the longer a  manager and the direct reports go between sessions, the less timely, and less accurate, the  information will be, and the less likely it is that the manager will be able to intervene in an  issue while it is still young. 
17.1.4 Preparation 
The manager’s preparation for a one-on-one meeting begins the second that the previous  meeting for that direct report ends. All of the managers’ direct reports’ one-on-one folders  should be readily available for ease of follow up for the next meeting. It is advisable to  request my direct reports to send their weekly reports the end of the day before the one-on-
13 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
one meeting. This gives the manager time to review the report before the meeting. Proposed format of the report: 
∙ Accomplishments & status - a list of current projects, with one or two sentences  describing progress and status on each. 
∙ Blocked/Waiting on - a list of roadblocks currently stopping projects from progressing. ∙ To do - a high-level to-do list of what you would like to accomplish in the next week ∙ Areas to develop - areas of development and what activities you have undertaken to  develop in those areas. 
∙ Quarterly goal tracking - Whether you establish goals, monthly, quarterly or yearly, you  should be making steady progress toward fulfilling those goals. This is a place to track  that progress. 
∙ One advantage of this method is it permits the employee to set the agenda before the  meeting and highlight areas they would like to talk about in the meeting  
17.1.5 Format of the one on one meeting 
As a guide, the one-on-one meeting should be divided into thirds: 
∙ One-third for your direct report to discuss their projects’ status, obstacles, and goals; ∙ One-third for you to pass on information that you think may be of value to your direct  report, discuss items of special interest to you and delegate new work;  ∙ One-third for assisting the employee with development opportunities.  
17.1.6 Questions 
The questions the manager asks in a one-on-one meeting depends a lot on how well you  know your direct report. In general it is good to start with open ended questions and then  focus in the areas that are important to the manger and to the direct report. Ask specific  questions about work done the previous week and what is coming up. Ask about obstacles  and if help can be offered to remove the obstacles. Ask if there is anything in particular the  direct report would like to talk about. 
17.1.7. Two-way Street 
The one-on-one meeting is not just a good time to get status from and provide feedback to  the direct report, it is also a good time to get feedback on performance and find out what can  be done to help your employee succeed. The more comfortable the direct reports become  with being frank with the manager the more successful a manager will be. 
14 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
17.1.8. Wrapping up the Meeting 
At the end of the meeting be sure that the actions from the meeting are recorded, and review  the actions with the direct report so the actions are clearly understood. Ask the direct report  if there is anything else they would like to discuss. 
17.1.9. Post-Meeting 
For the one-on-one meetings to be successful what both the manager and direct reports do  after the meeting is at least as important as the meeting itself. Using whatever method a  manager should track their work; the actions that they are responsible for need to be worked  on. One of the quickest ways to erode the effectiveness of a one-on-one meeting, and most  likely the relationship with the direct reports is to agree to actions on behalf of the direct  reports and not follow up on them.
15 Performance Management Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016