REHABILITATION POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Rehabilitation policy
	Version 
	V- 01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Rehabilitation Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
∙ Cellulant is committed to the provision of workplace rehabilitation that supports and  enables injured or sick employees to remain at or return to the workplace to continue the  discharge of work duties. This process benefits both the employee and the employer. ∙ Cellulant is committed to: 
o Providing a healthy work environment and, in the event of an injury or an illness,  making sure workplace rehabilitation is started as soon as possible in accordance  with medical advice. 
o Trying to facilitate a safe and early return to work of employees by identifying  duties that are appropriate to the grade and function where possible. These duties  will be medically approved and time limited 
o Respecting the confidential nature of medical information and ensuring there will  be both verbal and written confidentiality 
o Ensuring all employees are aware that, in the event of injury or illness, they will be  consulted to develop their Rehabilitation Plan or a structured safe return to work that will not disadvantage them 
3.0 Purpose 
The purpose of this policy is to: 
∙ Describe the nature of commitment that Cellulant will provide to all sick/injured  employees 
∙ Provide guidelines on conducting workplace rehabilitation that assists employees  affected by both work and non-work related injuries/illnesses to recover and perform  duties for which they are employed 
∙ Provide support to employees that may require rehabilitation on matters related to  substance abuse, harassment at work and professional counselling where deemed  necessary 
∙ Support an early and safe return for the employee who has an illness/injury as part of  the business continuity plan 
4.0 Scope 
This policy applies to all employees of Cellulant.
2 Rehabilitation Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.0 Definitions 
Item 
	Definition/Abbreviation
	Rehabilitation 
	The process of restoration of skills by a person who has had an illness or injury so as to regain maximum self-sufficiency and function in a normal or as near normal manner as possible. This process is restorative, supportive and preventive and is dependent on the integration of all elements required e.g. medical, physical/ functional, occupational / vocational, psychological etc.
	Workplace 
	The workplace includes, but is not limited to, the physical work site, restrooms, training sessions, business travel, conferences, work related social gatherings, etc.
	Workplace 
Rehabilitation
	A managed process involving early intervention with appropriate, adequate and timely services based on assessed needs and which is aimed at maintaining injured or ill employees in, or returning them to, suitable employment.
	Rehabilitation 
Professionals
	Healthcare Professionals with qualifications validated by the designated authority and/or registration council, and with the skills and competencies required to provide an appropriate intervention for the issues that may be inhibiting a return to work.
	Suitable 
alternative duties
	These professionals may be within or outside of the HSE. Matching pre-injury/illness duties to recovery abilities on a temporary basis.
	Work related 
injuries
	Injuries sustained directly related to the employee's occupation at  work or the workplace.
	Non-Work related injuries / illnesses
	Injuries/illnesses that are determined by a medical practitioner as not significantly caused by the employee's occupation at work or the workplace.
	



3 Rehabilitation Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
6.0 Employer Responsibilities 
Cellulant is responsible for: 
∙ Preventing within reason injury and illness at the workplace by providing a safe and  healthy working environment. 
∙ Ensuring that rehabilitation is the normal practice and an expectation in the workplace. ∙ Ensuring that rehabilitation commences as soon as possible following an injury or illness  and in accordance with medical advice. 
∙ Aiming through a Rehabilitation Plan to return the employee to his / her normal duties. ∙ Providing suitable duties where practicable, with the aim to return the employee to  normal duties. 
∙ Consulting with employees and, where appropriate, treating medical practitioners to  ensure that the workplace rehabilitation procedures operate effectively and safely. ∙ Establishing a team based consultative approach for workplace rehabilitation with  employees, managers and supervisors in the development, implementation and  evaluation of programmes. 
∙ Ensuring employees are not disadvantaged by participating in workplace rehabilitation  programmes. 
∙ Respecting the rights and the confidentiality of employees. 
7.0 Line Manager Responsibilities 
Line Managers are responsible for: 
∙ Accepting rehabilitation practices as part of management functions within Cellulant. ∙ Educating all employees about the Policy and Procedures and what to expect when an  injury/illness occurs. 
∙ Ensuring workplace rehabilitation is part of the new employee induction process. ∙ To be aware of circumstances where an injured or ill employee may need rehabilitation  such as the occurrence of a disaster. 
∙ Ensuring rehabilitation in the workplace begins as soon as is practicable so that the  employee's maximum physical, psychological and social potential can be restored. ∙ Conducting a return-to-work meeting. 
∙ Monitoring the employee's progress in relation to suitable duties.
4 Rehabilitation Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Maintaining confidentiality of information received including appropriate storage and  handling. 
8.0 Employee Responsibilities 
∙ Be responsible for preventing work-related injury and illness in line with the  requirements by adhering to health and safety protocols appropriate to their scope of  work, designed to promote safe working and to avoid injury to oneself and others. 
∙ In the event of a work-related injury or work risk incident, appropriate medical treatment  must be sought e.g. first aid station or Emergency Department. 
∙ In the event of a disaster and employee suffers from stress/trauma, the employee should  request for counselling. 
∙ Actively participate in any return-to-work programme in order to resume their normal  duties as soon as practicable after illness or injury in accordance with medical advice. ∙ Where possible, keep in regular contact with the line manager with particular emphasis  on informing of any deterioration in condition or unexpected issues arising. ∙ Report any injury occurring at work as soon as possible to the line manager. ∙ Fellow employees will be encouraged to support injured/ill employees and will be  informed about their co-worker's rehabilitation on a 'need to know' basis and with the  employee's consent. 
9.0 HR Responsibilities 
∙ To communicate this Policy and what to expect when an illness or injury occurs to all  employees. 
∙ Support and advise line managers on their roles and responsibilities in relation to the  policy. 
∙ Work with line managers in devising Rehabilitation Plans. 
∙ Advise employees of employee support services such as counselling. 
10.0 Procedure for Workplace Rehabilitation for Employees 
∙ All injuries and illness must be reported to the immediate line manager. ∙ If needed, immediate first aid or medical attention must be provided e.g. first aider or the  Emergency Department.
5 Rehabilitation Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ The line manager should inform the HR Department regarding the employee's  illness/injury. 
∙ Where the intervention is not medical, referral will be made to the relevant rehabilitation  professionals, e.g. professional, psychological and other counselling related services. ∙ In consultation with the relevant stakeholders a rehabilitation and Return-to Work Plan  with agreed time frames will be developed. This plan will include: 
o The goals of the plan 
o List of duties and restrictions 
o Hours to be worked 
o Details of training required 
o Anticipated time frame of plan 
o Details of pay during the period 
o Reviewed formally every three months (or sooner if required)  
∙ The HR Department will maintain good communications between all parties involved,  including providing feedback on the Rehabilitation Plan while maintaining confidential  and up-to-date records of the progress of the plan. 
∙ Where it is identified that a staff member is not progressing and achieving goals as  agreed in the Rehabilitation Plan, in collaboration with the employee, the line  manager/supervisor, the HR department, relevant rehabilitation professionals and  treating Medical Practitioner, will identify areas of concern, seek appropriate additional  advice as indicated and amend the plan accordingly.  
11.0 Conclusion of Workplace Rehabilitation 
∙ Workplace rehabilitation will conclude when the employee resumes all the prescribed  duties for the role to which they were appointed. 
∙ In the event that the employee is unable to return to work in their former position, a  number of alternative administrative arrangements will be discussed with the ill/ injured  employee. They may include, but are not limited to, retraining, redeployment or  retirement on ill health grounds. 
12.0 Evaluation  
A Workplace Rehabilitation Evaluation Form will be sent to each employee who was  involved in the rehabilitation plan to evaluate effectiveness of the program.
6 Rehabilitation Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016