RELOCATION POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Relocation Policy
	Version 
	V-01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Relocation Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
The policy provides a framework for financial and administrative relocation assistance to an  employee who is permanently transferred from one location to another at the Company's  request in order to maximize their performance and minimize their inconvenience during  the relocation. 
3.0 Scope 
This policy is applicable to all employees of Cellulant and it covers the employee, a spouse  and a maximum of four children. 
4.0 General Provisions 
∙ An employee will be eligible to have his/her relocation expenses reimbursed after  relocating to a new job location that is at least one hundred and fifty (150) km further  than former job location. 
∙ Any relocation expenses will be approved by the human resource department before the  expense is incurred. 
∙ Whereas possible, Cellulant will make direct payment for the expenses. E.g. Air ticket,  hotel accommodation. 
∙ Relocated employees shall submit vouchers for the expenses incurred to the human  resources department for reimbursement if they paid for the services directly. ∙ An employee will continue to enjoy the benefits in his new job location similar to the  ones enjoyed in the former job location E.g. medical cover. 
∙ Any exceptions to this policy require the prior approval of the human resources  department. 
5.0 Relocation approval 
∙ An employee who has been requested to relocate must complete a Relocation  Justification Form for approval.  
∙ The relocation form must be approved prior to relocation expenses being incurred.  
6.0 Expenses covered: 
The following outlines the expenses covered by Cellulant:
2 Relocation Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ A pre-assignment visit, to a maximum of three days, for the employee and their spouse.  The employee will receive a daily allowance to cover incidental costs. 
∙ Economy class air ticket or expenses for any other mode of transport on production of a  receipt.  
∙ Accommodation and meals for a maximum period of one month on relocation. ∙ Work permit for the employee which includes the total cost incurred by the company  including the government cost and facilitation cost of the permit. However, the staff will  be bonded for the total cost of the work permit for a period of two years and if the staff  leaves within one year, they pay the full cost and if after one year, the repayment  amount will be prorated. 
∙ Visa costs for the employee and employee’s spouse and children. 
∙ Immunisation of him/her and their family.  
∙ Shipment of Household Effects - The cost of normal household moving service from the  former permanent resident to the new residence to a maximum cost of USD 2000. ∙ Packing and Unpacking - The cost for normal moving services including packing of  normal household effects for shipment and unpacking and placement of household  goods at the new residence to a maximum cost of USD 1000. 
7.0 Expenses not covered 
∙ Moving or shipment of items such as cars, or similar items requiring special handling. ∙ Purchase of furniture, fixtures, appliances, equipment or materials for new residence. ∙ Tips or gifts to moving company employees. 
8.0 Relocation Allowance 
∙ To help an employee offset the cost of the many miscellaneous costs incurred in  relocation, an employee will receive a one off lump-sum payment equal USD 2500 for in  country relocation and and USD 5000 for out of country relocation.  
∙ This payment offers an employee the flexibility to use the funds for interim living and  other incidental moving expenses. Eg. Car rental, laundry, telephone and other  incidental expenses.
3 Relocation Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
9.0 Education Allowance 
∙ This is eligible to staff that relocate to other countries up to a maximum amount of USD  2000 annually per child (maximum of four children). 
10.0 Housing Allowance 
∙ This is eligible to staff that relocate to other countries and is paid monthly at the rate of  15% of the gross salary. 
11.0 Air ticket 
∙ This is eligible to staff that relocate to other countries and a personal return economy air  ticket to the country of origin will be provided every year for each member of family i.e.  employee, spouse and a maximum of four children. 
∙ The return air ticket cannot be redeemed for money if it is not utilised. ∙ If one family member has not utilised their ticket, it cannot be interchanged with another  member who has utilised their ticket. 
12.0 Medical Examination 
∙ It is advised that the employee, employees spouse and children obtain a full medical check-up including dental and eye examination before leaving the country.  ∙ This examination costs will be made from the employee’s medical cover. 
13.0 Taxable Income  
∙ The items reimbursed or allowances paid to an employee under this policy are  considered taxable income, hence will be subjected to applicable statutory tax. 
14.0 Promissory Note 
∙ Before any reimbursement is made under this policy, an employee will be required to  sign a Promissory Note requiring them to reimburse the Company for the total cost of  any relocation expenses paid should they voluntarily leave the employment of the  Company or be released from employment for cause, including poor performance,  within twelve (12) months of relocating.
4 Relocation Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016