RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Recruitment and Selection Policy
	Version 
	V-01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Recruitment and Selection Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
Cellulant recognises that its staff is fundamental to its success and therefore needs to be able  to attract and retain staff of the highest calibre and a strategic, professional approach to  recruitment is essential to do this. 
3.0 Purpose 
∙ The policy defines the objectives to be met in the implementation of Recruitment and  Selection which are aimed at attracting competent individuals to fill a position with the  most suitable applicant.  
∙ Candidates are selected for appointment according to their ability, qualifications and  competencies required to fulfil the job requirements, without having regard to  discrimination factors, such as race gender, nationality, or religion. 
∙ The primary objective of the recruitment function in Cellulant is to ensure that the best  fit candidate, internal or external, is sourced, selected, appointed and on-boarded in a  manner that will ensure minimum disruption to business operations and maximum  productivity of the employee in the shortest time possible.  
∙ Internal candidates are given prior consideration for job appointments and only where it  is considered that a suitable internal candidate is not available will an external candidate  be appointed. 
∙ The Company considers itself an Equal Opportunity Employer and thus aims to  eliminate all forms of unfair discrimination in the recruitment and selection of staff. 
4.0 Scope 
∙ This policy and procedure covers all activities that form part of the recruitment and  selection process.  
∙ It is applicable to all permanent, temporary and contract employees.  
5.0 General provisions 
∙ Cellulant has a principle of open competition in its approach to recruitment. ∙ Cellulant will seek to recruit the best candidate for the job based on merit. The  recruitment and selection process should ensure the identification of the person best  suited to the job and fit for Cellulant.
2 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ The business goal of recruitment is to: ‘To attract those job applicants who are deemed to  be the ‘best fit’ in terms of them being suitably qualified and most suited to the  particular job vacancy.’ ‘Suitably qualified’ refers to an applicant who as a result of any  one of, or any combination of that person’s - 
o Formal qualifications;  
o Prior Learning;  
o Attitude  
oRelevant experience; or  
o Potential to acquire the necessary skills within a reasonable time, the ability to do  the job;  
oRepresents the best available candidate from a pool of job applicants.  ∙ Cellulant will seek to recruit both within and outside its workforce to obtain qualified  applications. To support career progress, internal recruitment maybe utilised so long as  it is consistent with the equal employment objectives and results in a diverse pool of  qualified applicants. 
∙ Cellulant will ensure that the recruitment and selection of staff is conducted in a  professional, timely and responsive manner and in compliance with current  employment legislation. 
∙ Cellulant will provide appropriate training, development and support to those involved  in recruitment and selection activities in order to meet this core principle.  ∙ Recruitment and selection is a key public relations exercise and should enhance the  reputation of Cellulant.  
∙ Cellulant will treat all candidates fairly, equitably and efficiently, with respect and  courtesy, aiming to ensure that the candidate experience is positive, irrespective of the  outcome. 
∙ Cellulant will promote best practice in recruitment and selection. It will continuously  develop its recruitment and selection practices to allow new ideas and approaches to be  incorporated. 
∙ Cellulant will ensure that its recruitment and selection process is cost effective. ∙ If a member of staff involved in the recruitment process has a close personal or familial  relationship with an applicant they must declare this as soon as they are aware of the  individual’s application and avoid any involvement in the recruitment and selection  decision-making process.
3 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ All documentation relating to applicants will be treated confidentially. 
6.0 Equal Opportunity Employer 
∙ Cellulant is an equal opportunity employer. It believes that the diversity of staff groups  contributes towards its intellectual strength and effectiveness and therefore  endeavors to operate an efficient system for distributing advertisements and  position announcements to women and men nationwide, and to make selection of  staff without regard to nationality, race, sex, religion or marital status.  
∙ In addition, Cellulant strives to offer a working environment which is sensitive to the  needs of both male and female employees, whether married or single.  
7.0 Classification of Posts  
∙ This classification policy will be based on the value of the position to the company, the  levels of responsibilities, the extent of supervisory duties and other requirements as  specified in the post descriptions.  
∙ Classification of posts forms the basis of decisions relating to appropriate salary scales  and associated benefits, recruitment, promotion and staff development.  
8.0 Types of Appointments  
The following are the categories of appointments in Cellulant:  
∙ Permanent Appointment: This refers to engagement of a suitable person who after  satisfactory completion of required probationary period has been confirmed. Such an  employee shall be entitled to a monthly salary, medical benefits, pension, annual leave  and any other benefits that may be approved from time to time.  
∙ Contract Appointment: This is the engagement of a person for a fixed duration and  mainly applies to employees required for specific assignments, professionals, experts,  consultants or retired employees required for a specific assignment.  
∙ Casual Employment: This is the engagement of a person whose terms provide for the  payment of wages at the end of each week and who is not engaged for a longer period  than one month at a time. Such engagements are terminable at the end of each day and  earn no leave, medical or any other benefits. No casual employee shall be retained for  periods exceeding three months.
4 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
9.0 Preparation Stage 
∙ The recruitment and selection process should not commence until a full evaluation of the  need for the role against the area’s strategic plans and budget has been completed. ∙ Recruitment should form an integral part of the staffing strategy for the area and should  take account of the need for any ‘positive action’ initiatives in process for example: including statements in advertisements that encourage individuals from under represented groups to apply for the advertised position. 
∙ All new or changed posts must be formally role reviewed and graded before they are  advertised in order to help ensure equal pay for work of equal value. 
∙ Formal authorisation to recruit to a post should be sought before commencing the  recruitment process. 
10.0 Mission Brief and Job Description  
∙ A mission brief and job description must be produced or updated for any vacant post  that is to be filled. 
∙ The job description should accurately reflect the elements of the post. ∙ The job description should state both the essential and desirable criteria in terms of  skills, aptitudes, knowledge and experience for the job, all of which should be directly  related to the job and applied equally to all applicants. 
11.0 Procedure 
11.1 Identification of the Vacancy 
∙ Managers are responsible for establishing a business need for recruitment and for  justifying the need to fill the vacancy or the need to create a new position.  ∙ A Recruitment Justification Form needs to be completed for approval before the  recruitment process can be initiated by Human Resources.  
∙ It is necessary to ensure that a vacancy does exist. Although there may be a resignation,  it may not always be necessary to replace the resigned employee as the function may be  absorbed by other employees.  
∙ If the position is a new position, it is important to ensure that the budget exists for the  appointment of a new employee.
5 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ The Manager should ensure that a correct analysis of the demographic data of the  department is done and clearly specify the requirements on the Employee requisition  justification form. 
11.2 Recruitment Approval 
∙ If a line manager requires the appointment of a resource for a new/vacant position they  need to complete a Recruitment Justification Form for approval.  
∙ The recruitment process can only commence when the Recruitment Justification form  has been approved and returned to Human Resources. 
∙ This applies to the recruitment and appointment of both contractors and permanent  employees. 
11.3 Advertising 
∙ On receipt of the approved employee justification form, Human Resources will draft an  internal advertisement which will be circulated, ensuring that that all vacancies are  advertised internally and brought to the attention of all employees. This is applicable  where the initial mode of sourcing selected is via advertisement for the role. 
∙ External advertisements will be drafted and advertised in the appropriate media and/or  electronic job boards if necessary. 
11.4 CV Selection 
∙ All CVs will be collated and screened by Human Resources before being forwarded to  the respective Line Manager for CV selection.  
∙ It is important to note that when conducting the CV selection process that we ensure  consistency by matching the CVs with the advertisement. 
∙ Once all the CVs have been screened and a short list of candidates has been identified,  Human Resources will then set up the interviews in conjunction with the Line Managers. 
11.5 Interviews 
∙ The overall purpose of the interview should be: 
o To provide information on the company and the job that the candidate has applied  for; 
6 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
o To elicit information on the applicants’ previous experience and qualifications, in  so far as they relate to competence in the job that they are being considered for; and  o To assess skills and competence, particularly behavioural attributes communication  and culture fit.  
∙ It is also important to note that all internal candidates are interviewed first before any  consideration is given to external candidates. 
∙ It is recommended that in view of Equity and Fairness that interviews are conducted by  a panel of three interviewers. This could be the direct Line Manager to whom the person  would be reporting to, a subject matter expert and a HR representative. This ensures that  the process is objective and that the decision to appoint or not to appoint is supported by  the panel. 
∙ The panel should willing and able to attend all interviews for the duration of the  recruitment process, to maintain consistency and to ensure fair treatment of all  candidates. 
∙ For all senior management positions, the relevant Board Committee will conduct the  interviews.  
∙ Shortlisted candidates will be notified of the interviews through telephone, letters or e mails which will include: 
o Date, time and place of their interview. 
o Details of any test or presentation they will be required to take or present. ∙ It is good practice to write to candidates who have not been short listed, but if this is not  possible, the additional particulars for the post should make clear that after a certain  specified period, if they have not heard from Cellulant, applicants should consider  themselves not to have been short listed. 
∙ Where interviews involve candidates not residing in the country where the interviews  are taking place, Cellulant will cater for the accommodation, meals and transport  expenses incurred by the candidate. 
11.6 Interview session 
∙ The structure of interviews should be decided in advance by determining who will chair  the panel and what areas of questioning are required to cover all of the elements of the  job specification. 
7 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ The question areas should be agreed in advance to avoid overlap or repetition and  panels may find it helpful to discuss their expectations of full answers to the questions,  prior to the interview.  
∙ The interview panel may decide to schedule a series of one-to-one interviews between all  individual panel members and every candidate. In this situation each individual panel  member should keep notes of each interview. 
∙ The same areas of questioning should be covered with all candidates and assumptions  should not be made regarding the expertise or abilities of candidates because of their  employment history.  
∙ Interview questions should be phrased so that they do not favour any one candidate or a  group of candidates. Supplementary questions should be used to probe for further  information or clarification where answers are incomplete or ambiguous. Care must be  taken to avoid questions that could be construed as discriminatory. 
∙ Interview notes must be taken by each panellist to help the panel to make an informed  decision based on the content of the interviews. Such notes must relate to how  candidates demonstrate their knowledge, skills, experience and abilities in relation to the  person specification. 
∙ Where the candidate being interviewed is disabled and reasonable adjustments may  need to be considered in relation to the workplace or job, these should only be discussed  if the disabled candidate is successful at the interview. 
∙ Interview proceedings are confidential and all interview notes will be handed to the  human resources department for filing. 
11.7 Selection Stage 
∙ The panel should do a thorough evaluation of resumes and supporting materials,  evaluation of skills testing if appropriate, and interviews, develop a priority list of three  (3) suitable candidates, giving reasons for their selection. 
∙ In making the final decision, one would need to consider the candidate’s performance  during the interview.  
∙ For some senior / key positions psychometric and profiling tests could be conducted on  the potential appointee to assess his/her potential to the role. It is also important to note  that the psychometric tests should not be used as the only decision making tool but  rather to assist the process.
8 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Unsuccessful candidates will be notified as soon as is reasonably practicable. 
11.8 Criminal, Credit and Reference Checks  
∙ Once the priority list of suitable potential candidates has been developed, the human  resourced office shall seek reference checks. 
A minimum of three (3) reference checks shall be sought, one (1) of which should be  from previous and one (1) from the immediate or current employer. It is important to  note that a permanent contract of employment is subject to favourable reference checks. 
∙ The important documents such as certificates may also be verified or subjected to due  diligence. 
∙ Confirmation into the role shall be subject to acceptable references being received from  previous employers where applicable.  
∙ Should Cellulant receive information that in its opinion is detrimental to the Company, it  reserves the right to terminate the offer or appointment. 
∙ Criminal and credit checks shall be conducted where applicable and justifiable with due  regard to the rights of privacy and confidentiality of the candidate. Only justifiable and  job related issues may be elicited and taken into consideration. 
∙ References are confidential and must be sought 'in confidence'.  
∙ References shall be kept in the personnel file. 
∙ An employee found to have given false information or neglected to give information  regarding any criminal offence will be subject to instant dismissal. 
12.0 Salary negotiations and offer 
∙ The salary offer to the successful candidate will be based on the recruitment approval  form and compared with the candidate’s present salary, experience or expertise. ∙ The salaries of staff doing similar work within the Cellulant with similar experience will  be taken into account. 
∙ All salary negotiations will be in line with the Cellulant’s salary and grading structure. ∙ If the salary proposed is above the budgeted amount, the Head of Human Resources will  present the justification for the proposed salary and seek approval to proceed with the  recruitment from the Chief Executive Officer. 
∙ Only the Chief Executive Officer or the Head of human resources are authorised to  discuss salary and other contractual details with employment candidates. 
9 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
13.0 Offer of Employment 
∙ The Head of human resources shall prepare an employment agreement signed by the  Chief Executive Officer indicating the terms and conditions of employment for the  selected candidate in compliance with standard labour practices and Cellulant policies. 
∙ The employment contract is only effective after the candidate signs and accepts the  stipulated conditions of employment which include the details of the employee, place of  work, date of commencement, duration of the contract, hours of work, remuneration,  grade and benefits. 
14.0 Employee On boarding  
∙ Once the employee accepts the offer letter, the on boarding process is followed. ∙ The new employee receives a ‘New Employee Pack’ for completion. This ensures that all  personal details are captured onto the HRIS system as well as ensuring that the new  employee’s contractual benefits are recorded and provided accordingly. ∙ The new employee will receive in their first week all the necessary business tools needed  to fulfil the role (i.e. computer, office access rights etc.) – as relevant. 
∙ The new employee is invited and required to attend the classroom induction session  which gives a full overview of the business and a better sense of the company purpose,  vision, strategy and values. 
∙ The business unit then on-boards the employee into the respective area of the business  and according to the job role. The Manager is required to have a follow up meeting with  the new recruit after 3 months to assess whether they have settled into their new role  and to elicit any feedback and/or concerns; It is recommended that a further follow up  is done after 6 months of service to ensure the employee is happy and on track.  
15.0 Employment of Relatives 
∙ It is company policy not to employ relatives in the same unit where such employment  could place the employee in potentially compromising situations/conflict of interest  and/or where there may raise a concern about conflict of interest or report one  to the other. 
∙ Should a manager be in any doubt as to whether the employment of the applicant in  their unit may create a conflict of interest, then the matter should be referred to Human Resources.
10 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
16.0 Expatriates 
∙ For all expatriates hire, Cellulant will aim to provide a remuneration to cater for the  relocation and will cover transport expenses to report to their work station and provide  accommodate for a maximum period of fourteen days. 
∙ Cellulant will also apply for a work permit for the new employee but the costs  associated with the work permit will be borne by the staff. 
17.0 Staff records and privacy 
∙ Information contained in personnel records will be managed with integrity to achieve  accuracy, privacy and legal compliance. 
∙ The Human Resources office will maintain the official personnel records containing  information on each employee to meet legal requirements and to assure efficient  personnel administration.
11 Recruitment and Selection Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016