SEPARATION AND CLEARANCE POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Separation and Clearance Policy
	Version 
	V1- 00
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Separation and Clearance Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
The Separation and Clearance Procedure policy is designed to assure that all departing  employees from Cellulant are separated from employment properly and any property, keys  and any outstanding debts owed are cleared prior to the employee's departure. 
In addition, departing employees are encouraged to participate in a confidential exit  interview process. 
3.0 Scope 
This policy is applicable to all employees of Cellulant, interns and students on attachment  who are with Cellulant for a period of 3 months and above. 
4.0 Types of Separation 
4.0.1 Retirement 
∙ Staff members will normally retire at age 60 and their employment will automatically  end on the last day of the month in which the staff member reaches age 60. Employees  can apply for early retirement from the age of 55. Such applications will be made to the  Chief People Officer and Chief Executive Officer. 
∙ Staff will be notified by the Human Resources Department one year in advance of the  retirement date and the HR department will further organize for a pre-retirement  training. 
∙ For employees who have served for over 10 years who retire, Cellulant will give a  special recognition to the employee in form of a retirement gift. 
4.0.2 Disability or medical grounds 
∙ If staff member can no longer carry out assigned responsibilities because of continuous  illness or serious disability due to an accident, whether incurred before or during the  employment, and after exhaustion of all entitlements to leave days and sick leave, for a  period of three months and upon certification by our appointed medical advisor on  continued employment, shall be considered for medical termination. 
∙ Employees will be given written notice and separation benefits as stipulated in each  individual contract. 
∙ Cellulant will however and as practical as possible endeavor to relocate the employee to  an area that they can perform the duties with the disability.
2 Separation and Clearance Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
4.0.3 Disability or medical grounds 
∙ In the event of death of an employee, the employment contract will be terminated with  effect from the date of death.  
∙ Any pending benefits and payments will be made to the person(s) entered as next of kin  in our official records on provision of a copy of the death certificate or notification. ∙ Cellulant will provide last expense assistance as per the conditions of the WIBA, Medical  and staff welfare policies. 
4.0.4 Redundancy 
∙ A staff member's employment may be terminated through redundancy because of  changes in the organization or assignment of duties, or any unforeseen circumstances.  ∙ In this case, Cellulant will follow all statutory requirements for staff redundancy and  
give the stipulated notice of termination or payment in lieu as per Employment Act of  the specific country. 
4.0.5 Termination or Dismissal 
An employee may be terminated or dismissed for various reasons.  
If the service of a staff member is terminated, the following benefits are granted: ∙ Salary up to the last day of service 
∙ Balance of any leave days accrued not taken as at the date of termination  ∙ Pension dues according to rules governing the fund 
∙ Gratuity where applicable 
∙ Outstanding payments and allowances where applicable. 
In case of summary dismissal, all benefits of termination above will apply with the exception  payment in lieu of notice, which will be forfeited. 
4.0.6 Resignation 
∙ A staff member resigning from Cellulant must give notice in writing for such period as  specified in their contract of employment.  
∙ Under certain circumstances the notice period to be served by the employee can be  reduced at the discretion of divisional head.  
∙ Both employer and employee can make payment in lieu of notice.
3 Separation and Clearance Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
4.0.7 Expiry of Contract 
∙ Where staff are employed on a fixed term contract, the employment for such an  employee shall come to an end at the expiry of the contract.  
∙ A new contract may be entered into between the two parties and each contract shall  explicitly specify the method of terminating the agreement, required notice and payment  in lieu of notice and any other terminal benefits on expiry of contract. 
5.0 Exit Interview 
∙ The purpose of the exit interview is to provide the management with:  o Insight into why employees leave employment  
o Insight into how working conditions and expectations can be improved  o Relevant and useful data into training needs analysis and training planning  processes 
o Indicators as to how staff retention can be improved  
o Insight into employee perceptions on what Cellulant could do to improve its  performance.  
o Foster good relations with the employee to them to be an ambassador of Cellulant when they leave. 
∙ Exit interviews are not to be used an opportunity to evaluate the employee’s  performance.  
∙ Information obtained during an exit interview process is not to be placed in the  employee’s personnel file.  
∙ Responses to questions may be treated as confidential, and shared on a limited need-to know basis and/or used in summary form for organizational improvement purposes.  ∙ Exit interviews are usually conducted with departing employees just prior to the  employee’s last day of work, i.e., within the last two weeks of the assignment end date ∙ Participation in exit interviews by the employee is voluntary. Employees are not to be  compelled to attend exit interviews 
5.1 Employee Clearance Process 
∙ The Employee Clearance Form must be completed and submitted to Human Resources  for all employees on their last day of employment. 
∙ Full clearance will also facilitate payment of final dues.
4 Separation and Clearance Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Should an employee depart without completing the Employee Clearance procedure,  Cellulant may choose to take all appropriate steps required to ensure the return of all  property and/or the collection of any debts owed to it at the time of the employee's  departure. 
5.1.1 Supervisor’s Role  
∙ For Customer facing roles (external & internal)- list all the critical customers handled by  the person leaving. 
∙ Identify the person who will continue serving each customer once person leaves. ∙ List all the projects the exiting employee has been undertaking. 
∙ Determine which staff will be handed over to, by the person leaving and monitor the  handover process. 
∙ If the departing employee is a manager, identify who will handle the role in acting  capacity. 
∙ Ensure that the employee’s work and personal files are to be copied, moved and/or  deleted as appropriate.  
∙ Maintain phone lists and internal database and contact list. 
∙ Care needs to be taken that any required business files and records are retained and  remain accessible. Files to check include: 
o e-mail 
o shared, group and/or personal drives 
o hard drives 
5.1.2 ICT Department’s Role 
∙ All access to ICT systems is revoked for the person leaving. 
∙ Retrieve computers/laptops, software programs, manuals, discs and licenses ∙ Revoke door access 
5.1.3 Administration’s Role 
The following documents should be retrieved: 
∙ Locker keys 
∙ Mobile phone  
∙ Fuel card
5 Separation and Clearance Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Parking card 
∙ Medical Cards 
5.1.4 Human Resource Role 
∙ Acknowledge exit notification and outline exit procedure to employee. ∙ Issue a Certificate of Service. 
∙ Advice employee / handle any clarification required by exiting employee. ∙ Conduct exit interview. 
∙ Receive full completed clearance form. 
∙ Communicate exit notification to Finance with last dues payment details. ∙ Ensure the employee records are updated on the Company HRIS as exited.  
5.1.5 Finance Role 
∙ Process and make final dues payments to employee upon full clearance.
6 Separation and Clearance Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016