SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Sexual Harassment Policy
	Version 
	V-01
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Sexual Harassment Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
The purpose of this policy is: 
∙ To promote a safe and secure work environment in which the dignity of all persons is respected  and which is free from harassment; 
∙ To guard against incidences of unfair discrimination based on sex and/or gender; ∙ To provide an internal procedure for dealing with issues and complaints of harassment which  may arise 
3.0 Scope 
This policy is applicable to: 
∙ All Employees employed by Cellulant. 
∙ A non-employee who is a victim of harassment has lodged a grievance with the employer of the  harasser where the harassment has taken place in the workplace or in the course of the  harasser’s employment. 
∙ The policy is aligned and complies with legislation requirements, key reference being the  Employment Act 2007 and Sexual Offences Act. 
4.0 Definition of Sexual Harassment 
Sexual harassment means any unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours, and  other verbal or non-verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. The unwanted nature of  sexual harassment distinguishes it from behaviour that is welcome and mutual. 
5.0 Sexual attention becomes sexual harassment if; 
∙ The behaviour is persistent, although a single incident of attention can constitute sexual  harassment; and/or 
∙ The recipient has made it clear that the behaviour is considered offensive, or is  unwelcome; and/or 
∙ The perpetrator should have known that the behaviour is regarded as unacceptable. 
6.0 Forms of sexual harassment 
Sexual harassment may include unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct, but is not  limited to the examples listed as follows: 
∙ Physical conduct of a sexual nature includes all unwanted physical contact, ranging from touching to sexual assault and rape, and includes a strip search by or in the presence of 
2 Sexual Harassment Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
the opposite sex. 
∙ Verbal forms of sexual harassment include unwelcome innuendoes, suggestions and  hints, sexual advances, comments with sexual overtones, sex-related jokes or insults or  unwelcome graphic comments about a person’s body made in their presence or directed  toward them, unwelcome and inappropriate enquiries about a person’s sex life, and  unwelcome whistling directed at a person or group of persons. 
∙ Non-verbal forms of sexual harassment includes but is not limited to unwelcome gestures  or facial expressions of a sexual nature, indecent exposure, and the unwelcome display of  sexually explicit pictures and objects, playing sexually suggestive music directed at a  particular individual and offensive words on clothing. 
∙ Written: sending suggestive crude emails like posting emails or pictures of a sexual or  other harassment-related nature. 
∙ Quid pro quo harassment occurs where an owner, employer, supervisor, member of  management or co-employee, undertakes or attempts to influence the process of  employment, promotion, training, discipline, dismissal, salary increment or other benefit  of an employee or job applicant, in exchange for sexual favours. 
∙ Sexual favouritism exists where a person who is in a position of authority rewards only  those who respond to his/her sexual advances, whilst other deserving employees who do  not submit themselves to any sexual advances are denied promotions, merit rating or  salary increases. 
∙ Some forms of sexual conduct, which are considered innocuous by some people, may be  considered offensive by others. In addition, different social or cultural backgrounds may  lead people to perceive the same conduct differently. What one person accepts as  reasonable behaviour, another may find offensive. 
7.0 Entitlement of Cellulant employees: 
∙ Every employee is entitled to employment that is free of sexual harassment; ∙ The employer shall take steps to ensure that no employee is subjected to sexual  harassment; 
∙ The employer shall take such disciplinary measures as the employer deems appropriate  against any person under the employer's direction, who subjects any employee to sexual  harassment; 
∙ Complaints of sexual harassment may be brought to the attention of the employer as per  the procedure contained in the grievance policy; the employer will not disclose the name 
3 Sexual Harassment Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
of a complainant or the circumstances related to the complaint to any person except where  disclosure is necessary for the purpose of investigating the complaint or taking  disciplinary measures in relation thereto. 
∙ The employer shall provide counselling for all employees who have been sexually  harassed at its own cost. 
8.0 Procedure to follow to report cases of sexual harassment 
∙ Any employee who has a concern, grievance or complaint about harassment in the  workplace should report it directly to his or her immediate supervisor, unless the  supervisor is involved, in which case the employee is to report his or her concerns to the  respective Human Resources Manager. Allegations of sexual harassment will be dealt  with seriously, expeditiously, sensitively and confidentially. 
∙ There are two options to resolve sexual harassment related cases, either formally or  informally. 
8.1 Informal Procedure 
∙ It may be sufficient for the employee concerned or his/her representative to have an  opportunity where he/she can explain to the person engaging in the unwanted conduct,  in the presence of the complainant's supervisor, that the behaviour in question is not  welcome, and that it offends them or makes them uncomfortable, and that it interferes  with their work and that the offender must stop such behaviour once and for all. 
∙ However, if the informal approach has not provided satisfactory outcome and the conduct  continues it may be more appropriate to embark on a formal procedure. 
8.2 Formal Procedure 
∙ Where it is necessary to follow a formal procedure, the employee will be required to either  file a written grievance in the manner as set out in the Grievance Procedure. ∙ A thorough investigation of the complaint will be promptly initiated where both parties  will be requested to give a statement. It is important that the complaint being investigated  and all information be kept confidential. 
∙ Should investigations reveal that a disciplinary enquiry is necessary in order to discipline  the perpetrator, the procedure as set out in the Disciplinary Procedure will apply. ∙ Serious incidents of sexual harassment or continued harassment after warnings are  dismissible offences.
4 Sexual Harassment Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Sexual assault and rape are criminal offences and in such cases the complainant will also  be advised to report the offence to the Police. 
9.0 Confidentiality and disclosure of information  
∙ Employers and employees must ensure that grievances about sexual harassment are  investigated and handled in a manner that ensures that the identities of the persons  involved are kept confidential. 
∙ In cases of sexual harassment, management, employees and the parties concerned  must endeavor to ensure confidentiality at the disciplinary inquiry.  
∙ Only appropriate members of management, the aggrieved person, the alleged  perpetrator and witnesses, should be present at the disciplinary inquiry. 
10.0 Penalties 
The following penalties shall apply in the case of a sexual offence: 
∙ Immediate suspension from employment whilst undertaking investigations via the  formal procedure. 
∙ Summary dismissal where found guilty by the disciplinary committee ∙ Institution of criminal proceedings as provided in the Sexual offences Act and Penal  code 
11.0 General Principles 
∙ It is a disciplinary offence to victimize or retaliate against an employee who in good  faith lodges a grievance of sexual harassment; 
∙ Similarly, should it be proved that an employee has falsely accused another  employee of sexual harassment; the accuser will face disciplinary action. ∙ A victim of sexual assault has the right to press separate criminal and/or civil  charges against an alleged offender, and the legal rights of the victim are in no way  limited by the Disciplinary Code. 
∙ Sexual harassment is a form of unfair discrimination on the basis of sex and/ or  gender and/ or sexual orientation which infringes the rights of the complainant and  constitutes a barrier to equity in the workplace. 
∙ Sexual harassment in the workplace will not be permitted or condoned. ∙ Complainants in sexual harassment matters have the rights to follow the procedures  in this policy and appropriate action must be taken by the employer.
5 Sexual Harassment Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ Where an employee’s existing sick / compassionate leave entitlement has been  exhausted, management will give due consideration to the granting of additional  appropriate leave in cases of serious sexual harassment where the employee, on  medical advice, requires trauma counselling. 
∙ While the company cannot “legislate” against mutual and consensual relationships  of an intimate nature between employees, experience has indicated that, upon  dissolution of the relationship, claims of sexual harassment have subsequently been  lodged by one or the other party. 
∙ In this regard, should a consensual relationship exist between employees, the most  senior person involved in the relationship is required to disclose the existence of this  relationship to the Chief People Officer or the appointee, if the relationship is  between a superior and subordinate. This disclosure will be treated in strict  confidence. 
∙ The company also requires the employees in close personal relationships refrain  from public displays of affection in the workplace. 
12.0. Responsibility  
∙ It is the responsibility of all employees to act within the mandate of this policy.  ∙ All employees and management have a role to play in contributing towards creating and  maintaining a working environment in which harassment is unacceptable. This can be  done by ensuring that standards of conduct do not cause offence and by discouraging  unacceptable behaviour on the part of others. 
∙ It is the responsibility of the Line Manager to ensure that employees in their departments  are familiar with the policy. 
∙ All exceptions to this policy require Group Chief People Officer & Group CEO Approval.
6 Sexual Harassment Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016