STAFF WELFARE POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Staff Welfare Policy
	Version 
	V1- 00
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Staff Welfare Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
∙ Cellulant recognises all their employees to be the most valuable resource and that the  welfare of all employees is essential in achieving the Company’s mission.  ∙ The company has a staff welfare fund committed to providing a caring and supportive  working environment for all employees. 
3.0 Scope 
It covers all permanent employees. 
4.0 Purpose 
∙ The staff welfare fund is set up to fund the social and welfare activities for staff such as: o Celebration of weddings 
o Celebration of new born babies 
∙ The staff welfare funds can be used to provide relief in the form of financial assistance  such as: 
o Last expense 
o Medical expense 
4.1 Wedding Celebration 
∙ Staff should notify human resource department of the intention to hold a wedding 3  months prior. 
∙ The total amount of Kshs. 60,000/= is given to a staff on their wedding day allocated in  the following three ways : 
o All cash 
o 50% cash and 50% gift 
o All gift 
∙ A wedding invitation card/notice of marriage from the AGs office/marriage certificate  or affidavit would need to be provided for the money to be issued to the staff for  documentation purpose. 
4.2 Birth Celebration 
∙ Staff should notify human resource department immediately of the birth of the child.
2 Staff Welfare Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ A staff welfare representative will make a hospital visit and take flowers or a fruit basket  and a card all of which should amount to Kshs. 3,000/=. 
∙ The staff will be given money as per below: 
o One child – Kshs. 15,000/= 
o Twins – Kshs. 25,000/= 
o Triplets and above – Kshs. 35,000/= 
∙ A portion of the amount allocated for birth celebrations MUST be used to buy a gift  given based on the staff’s gift preference and the balance will be given in cash. ∙ A birth notification should be provided for purpose of documentation. 
4.3 Last expense 
∙ Last respect expenses cover staff and or staff’s spouse, staff’s father and father in law,  staff’s mother and mother in law, son or daughter. 
∙ The amount advanced will be Kshs.60,000/= in case of death of any of the people  stipulated above. 
∙ A copy of the death notification or a newspaper funeral announcement will be required  for documentation purpose. 
4.4 Medical expense 
∙ On hospital admission, staff welfare representative will make a hospital visit and take  flowers or a fruit basket and a card all of which should amount to Kshs. 3,000/=.  ∙ In the event of medical exhaustion of the inpatient cover of staff, the welfare will cover  up to a maximum of Kshs. 100,000/= in a year. 
5.0 Fund Administration 
5.1 Membership 
∙ The membership to the Fund is subject to one being an employee of Cellulant.  ∙ A member of the welfare will continue to be a member so long as he/she is in  employment at Cellulant. 
∙ A member of the welfare, on leave or under suspension, shall continue to be a member,  so long as she/he continues to subscribe to the welfare.
3 Staff Welfare Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
5.2 Fund management 
∙ The welfare fund will be managed by a management committee of five elected members  of the welfare.  
∙ The committee will be headed by a chairperson, who is among the five committee  members.  
∙ For one to be elected as a member of the management committee she/he has to be a  member of the welfare.  
∙ At any given time not more than three fifth of the management committee members will  be one gender.  
∙ Each committee will serve a period of twelve months (12).  
∙ Once the five members have been elected they will hold a meeting to choose the chair,  the vice chair, the secretary, the treasurer. The meeting will be held within 72 hours after  the election. 
5.3 Elections 
∙ The elections will take place annually.  
∙ It will take place one month before the expiry of the term of the current office holders. ∙ The outgoing committee in its last month in office will orient the management  committee elect.  
∙ In every election not less than one fifth but not more than two fifth will be re-elected in  office. 
∙ The election will be conducted in one sitting but in two stages: 
o The first stage, all the current office bearers will be candidates. A vote will be  conducted, the committee members with the highest vote will be selected in  observance of “In every election not less than one fifth but not more than two fifth  will be re-elected in office’. 
o The second stage will be conducted to fill in the remaining positions after the first  stage. All members of the welfare except the current committee members are eligible.  The winners will be determined by simple majority. 
5.4 Duties and mandate 
∙ The management committee will:- 
o Ensure all the funds are accounted for.
4 Staff Welfare Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
o Determine the funds are used for the purposes stated in this document o Ensure that funds are utilized fairly  
o Organize for the AGM and SGM 
o Receive and ensure the stipulated collections 
o In conjunction with HR organize for the annual elections  
o Determine the amount that will be given to each member of the welfare that  experiences what is mentioned under “Purpose for the fund”. The amount will be  determined at the beginning of the committee’s term, and will be determined by the  availability of funds.  
6.0 Determine removal from office for any member 
∙ The management committee member will be removed from office when:- o He/she cease to be a member of the welfare fund 
o He/she resigns from Cellulant/the management committee 
o He/she misappropriates the Welfare’s funds 
o He/she is unable to conduct his/her duties 
o The term of service ends 
7.0 Term 
∙ The management committee will serve one term of one (1) year or twelve (12) months.  
8.0 Disciplinary Procedure 
∙ Any suspicion for misappropriation of fund by a member will be handled according to  the Cellulant disciplinary procedure. 
9.0 Procedure for funds access/application 
∙ The employee needs to fill a Funds Request form which will be sent to the staff welfare  email for approval by the committee. 
10.0 Sources of Fund 
The welfare fund will draw its finances from: 
∙ A once-off membership fee 
Every new member will be required to pay a once off membership fee of Ksh. 500,(this is the 
5 Staff Welfare Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
initial contribution by each staff) this fee may be revised by the Management Committee and  ratified by the members’ simple majority in an annual general meeting or general special  meeting. 
∙ Monthly subscription  
Subscription shall be collected from all the members of the Fund at the rates of Ksh. 500 per  a month, any change in the amount will be proposed by the Management Committee and  decided upon by the members’ simple majority in an annual general meeting or general  special meeting. 
∙ Donations from members, employers and any other well-wisher  
The donor will not be allowed to direct/ request the welfare and or its management  committee to spend the money donated in a manner that is not stipulated in this document.  
11.0 Welfare fund account 
∙ A joint account has been opened at Chase Bank which is the same bank where Cellulant  Kenya banks. This will make it easy for funds transfer as salary is being processed. ∙ Given that Cellulant Welfare is not a registered group, the account was opened as a joint  account among the office bearers with the account name Cellulant Kenya Welfare  Group. 
∙ The signing mandate: Five of the Office bearers will be signatories to the account.  ∙ For any given outgoing transaction to happen on the account the two signatories may  sign, with one as a member and any one of the mandatory signatories as above. 
12.0 Reports & Audit 
∙ Quarterly financial reports need to be prepared and availed to members at an agreed  place and time by the 10th day of the preceding quarter.  
∙ Quarterly report will be availed by the treasurer on the account status – this may be  shared on email. 
∙ End of year books will be prepared and be audited by cellulant’s chief accountant, who  will work together with the welfare treasurer. 
6 Staff Welfare Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
13.0 Duration 
The annual period for the welfare will run from January to December.  
14.0 Amendments to this document 
The amendments to this document must be supported by four fifth of the committee members. The amendments only take effect when two third of the members vote for it in a  SGM or AGM.  
\
7 Staff Welfare Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016