HOURS OF WORK POLICY 
1.0 Document Configuration Management 
1.1 Document Identification 
File Name 
	Hours of Work Policy
	Version 
	V1- 00
	Sensitivity Classification 
	Company Confidential Internal Use Only
	Document Owner 
	Human Resources Department
	



1.2 Preparation 
Action 
	Name 
	Title 
	Date
	Prepared by: 
	Dorcas Kiai 
	HRBP 
	May 2016
	Reviewed/Approved by: 
	Isabella Segina 
	CPO 
	May 2016
	



1.3 Release
Version 
	Date Released 
	Remarks
	V - 01 
	May 2016
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



  
1Hours of Work Policy 
2.0 Introduction 
The policy on working hours for Cellulant defines the principles of working hours as  guidance for employees to be aware of the working hours and Managers for the  management of working hours. 
3.0 Scope 
This policy applies to all employees at Cellulant.  
4.0 Purpose 
The purpose of this policy is to regulate working hours at Cellulant creating a conducive  working environment that is supportive and flexible, aimed at the achievement of  Cellulant’s strategic intent and in accordance to the employment act. 
5.0 Hours of work 
∙ All staff are required to work a minimum of 40 hours per week. Monday to Friday from  8.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m., unless otherwise approved by Line Manager. 
∙ Some departments may have some of their staff working in a shift system due to the  operational demands of the departments such as the Service Department. ∙ Where operational functions require an employee to work more than 8 hours a day, an  agreement must be reached between such an employee and the manager concerned.  ∙ Occasionally staff will be required to work on weekends and public holidays due to  business exigencies. 
6.0 Breaks 
∙ Cellulant provides for staff to take 15 minutes tea breaks at 10.00 a.m. and 4.00 p. m. and  1 hour lunch break taken between 12.30pm and 2.30pm depending on work exigency for  staff working in straight shifts.  
∙ For those working in shifts, the breaks will be guided accordingly by the Head of  Department. 
7.0 General provisions 
∙ If a staff requires to leave their department or Cellulant premises during the official  working hours, for a period of half day or longer, the leave policy will apply. 
2 Hours of Work Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016 
∙ All flexitime (whether for studies, religion or any other personal interests) must be  applied and formally approved.  
∙ All Heads of Departments are accountable where they have allowed staff to be on  flexitime without formal approval. 
8.0 Responsibility of the Manager 
∙ The Manager is responsible for ensuring that working hours are complied with by staff  in their respective departments. 
∙ The Manager is responsible for documenting all absences. 
9.0 Responsibility of the Employee 
∙ No employee shall be absent from work without approval from his/her supervisor. ∙ Time lost by employees for private reasons, such as doctor’s appointments, other private  appointments or for any other reason an employee might be absent from work for more  than half a day will be guided by the leave policy.  
10.0 Adherence to the policy 
∙ Employees who do not adhere to the stated working hours will be subject to disciplinary  action as per the Disciplinary Code policy.
3 Hours of Work Policy  
The Issue Number: 01 Prepared by: Dorcas Kiai Sign: D.K Date: May 2016 Revision Status: 00 Approved by: Isabella Segina Sign: I.S Date: May 2016